 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said it will not hesitate to challenge the nomination of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s personal aide, Lauretta Onochie, as a National Commissioner of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The party said this might be necessary, if the letter from the president, scaled second reading at the Senate. Onochie, a Special Assistant on Social Media to the President, was among the four nominees recently presented to the Senate for confirmation by the President. The nation had, however, witnessed EndSARS protests in the last few days, shifting attention from the nomination, which had received criticisms in the public. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, told BusinessDay, that all lawful means will be explored to stop Onochie. He said, “This is our country and it is the responsibility of all and sundry to ensure right things are done at all times. ” We will not shy from our responsibility as the main opposition party to insist on the right ting in the interest of democracy. ” Asked if the party would go to court if Onochie’s nomination is confirmed, he replied, “We will do everything constitutional, including going to the court, for the right things to be done. “But we are sure the leadership of the Senate already got a clear message from Nigerians that they cannot be taken for a ride on this matter. They know the right thing to do.” Recall that the Senate’s Minority Leader, Enyinaya Abaribe (PDP – Abia State), said the president had contravened the constitution that he swore to defend by nominating Onochie. He said, “Item F, paragraph 14 of the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) forbids a card carrying member of a political party to be a member of INEC. “The minority caucus of the Senate is against this nomination and call on Mr President to withdraw it.” Also at a press briefing in Abuja, the PDP had said nominating a card carrying member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), as a national commissioner in INEC was a highly provocative assault on the nation’s constitution and democratic process. The opposition party later accused the APC of being behind the series of constitutional violations, abuse of human rights and impunity bedeviling the nation in the last five years. The opposition party says it hinges its belief on the attempt of the ruling APC to justify Buhari’s appointment of his aide and frontline APC member, as INEC national commissioner. The PDP said such provocative, arrogant and disdainful display of impunity, especially abuse of the police was responsible for the growing tension, remonstration and social restiveness. It added that the APC by its action was plotting to trigger crisis.