 Despite mounting opposition, the All Progressives Congress (APC) would soon begin membership registration across the country. A group known as Concerned APC Members had opposed the move by the Governor Mai-Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee to embark on membership registration. The group at a recent press conference addressed by its Spokesperson, Abdullahi Dauda asked the Caretaker Committee to halt the proposed registration of fresh members and allow the next National Working Committee (NWC) Members to carry out such assignments. But this fell on deaf ears as the Committee on Thursday officially received materials for the Party’s nationwide membership registration, update and revalidation exercise to be conducted across thirty-six states and the Federal capital Territory (FCT). Governor Buni was accompanied by the Governor of Jigawa, Abubakar Badaru, the Caretaker Commitee’s Secretary, John Akpanudodehe among other senior party officials during the handover ceremony at the party’s National Secretariat, Abuja Buni disclosed that the APC membership registration, update and revalidation exercise will be conducted across the country’s 119,973 Polling Units and 57, 000 Voting Points. “As you can see, we just took delivery of the first consignment of the registration materials for the exercise that will soon commence across the country. We have over 119, 000 polling units and 57, 000 Voting Points across the country. As you can see this is the membership register and we have the personal information slip that goes with the register as well. “Like I said we have just taken first delivery and after taking all the stocks then we will unveil the date, the timetable for the registration across the country. We are going to register, revalidate our existing membership register across the country.” Governor Buni disclosed at the ceremony”, he said. APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena stated that the membership registration, update and revalidation exercise is in line with the desired reforms under the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led CECPC and the recognised need to expand the membership base of the Party. According to him: “The exercise will target a broad spectrum of Nigerians across urban, rural dwellers, unlettered population as well as Diaspora”. Indications emerged on Sunday that the All Progressives Congress (APC) may not hold the anticipated December National Convention to elect a new National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. APC had at its virtual National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in June sacked dissolved the then Adams Oshiomhole led-NWC, following leadership crisis and constituted a Caretaker/Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Chaired by Governor of Yobe State, Mai-Mala Buni. The Buni-led Committee was amongst others mandated to organize a national convention within six months to elect new National Officers of the party. However, one month to the expiration its six months mandate, the party leadership declared that APC must not go into a National Convention, and indeed a general election in crisis. According to a statement signed by APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) is focused on achieving and sustaining true and lasting unity, peace and reconciliation across party ranks and ahead of the planned national convention of the Party. “Ahead of the planned APC National Convention and indeed the 2023 General Elections, stakeholders should continue to support the CECPC efforts to unite the party in order to make it formidable enough to consolidate on the APCs national governing status and landmark achievements. “The APC must not go into a National Convention, and indeed a general election in crisis. We should take it one step at a time and ensure that the ongoing national reconciliation process being undertaken by the CECPC is sustained, successful and continue to yield results”, Nabena emphasized. He argued that the CECPC was constituted and inaugurated by the 8th resumed meeting of the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) in June with a core mandate to achieve peace-building, true reconciliation and to give a sense of belonging to every member of the Party. The APC Spokesman said while a section of the media has been awash with reports of a tenure extension for the CECPC, the focus remains achieving and sustaining the APC caretaker committees peace and reconciliation core mandate. Nabena said: “It is important that the APC conducts its planned national convention to produce the Partys national leadership as a united house. Otherwise the main aim of constituting the CECPC following the dissolution of the immediate-past National Working Committee (NWC) will be defeated. “Commendably, the Governor Buni-led CECPC has deployed a combination of true reconciliation, consultation and inclusiveness in achieving unity and cohesion in the Party. To reposition the Party to ensure good governance, Governor Buni proposed the recently-inaugurated tripartite Executive/Legislative/APC consultative Committee which is ensuring synergy, good governance and accelerated implementation of the Next Level agenda. “A peacemaker and stabilizing voice, Governor Buni is meeting all leaders, known party groups and interests in order to accommodate all interests. This has resulted in renewed commitment on the part of party members”. The APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary recalled that it is not surprising that elected National Executive Committee (Non- National Working Committee) members at a recent meeting with the Partys national leadership, passed a vote of confidence on the Buni-led APC CECPC which was sequel to an earlier passed confidence vote on the CECPC by 36 State APC Chairmen, including the Federal Capital Territory. He said, to further carry along dedicated party members, the CECPC is already working with the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration to urgently address the reward system for dedicated and loyal party members, particularly on appointment of deserving party members into several boards, agencies and parastatals of government. “It is commendable that the consultative Party leadership style instituted by Governor Buni as Chairman of the APC CECPC has brought back many prominent Party members and leaders including, former national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Barnabas Gemade; former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, Dr. Alex Otti among others. “The planned nationwide registration, update, revalidation of the Party’s membership register will undoubtedly cement the APCs political and numerical status as Nigerias largest political party. “Also, the CECPC has resuscitated the Partys internal dispute resolution mechanisms and has set up reconciliation committees for Oyo, Edo, Ondo, Imo, Ogun, Ekiti among other States chapters with reported disputes. The Committees are already meeting with the key stakeholders in the various states and has achieved substantial reconciliation in many states. “The success stories of the ongoing reconciliation efforts abound. Case points are Cross River State where the CECPC reconciled the two factions and appointed a State Caretaker Committee led by Sen. Matthew Mbu (Jnr.) as acting State Chairman. In Ondo State, all the Governorship aspirants were brought together, campaigned and worked for the successful re-election of the APC Candidate, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). “In Akwa Ibom State, the CECPC brought together all the contending interests under one roof and achieved true reconciliation. Today, in Akwa Ibom, leaders such as Sen. Godswill Akpabio, Obong Nsima Ekere, Mr. Umana O. Umana, Sen. Ita Enang, Barr. Bassey Dan Abia (Snr) among others are working together and in collective pursuit of Party interests. “At the national level and on the auspices of the CECPC, the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva have resolved in Party interest to work together and strengthen the Party, particularly in the South South geo-political zone. “The Governor Buni-led APC CECPC met last Tuesday at the Party’s National Secretariat and reviewed the implementation of the CECPC’s three (3) months action plan. “Registration, update, revalidation of the Party’s nationwide membership register: The process is ongoing. “APC National Executive Committee (NEC) resolution directing all aggrieved Party members who had gone to court to withdraw cases: The CECPC further directed affected parties to fully comply with the directive in the true spirit of peace and reconciliation. “Ongoing reconciliation efforts: The CECPC has substantially reconciled various factions in some affected states, viz: Bauchi, Bayelsa, Cross River, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Zamfara, Ondo, Oyo States. “Meetings with identified stakeholders/elders, state governors, state chairman, National Assembly caucus, identified youth & women group, ministers and heads of parastatals: The CECPC is constantly in touch with the listed stakeholders. “Mid-term Report: The CECPC is constantly briefing the President, Chairman Progressives Governors Forum, Senate President and Speaker, House of Representatives with a mid-term report which will enable the CECPC to take all-inclusive decisions. “It is important to take cognizance of the fact that the prior internal party crisis which was unfortunately left to fester before the advent of the CECPC distracted public attention from appreciating the monumental strides that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government is making in delivering on APCs three critical electoral promises fighting corruption, security and revamping the economy from 16 years Peoples Democratic party (PDP) misrule and mismanagement”, Nabena added.