 About 1.7 million persons are eligible to vote in the rescheduled December 5 Lagos East senatorial by-elections. This was disclosed Wednesday, by Sam Olumekun, Lagos State Resident Electoral Commissioner in a telephone interview with Businessday, noting that the voters were those who had registered to vote and collected their Permanent Voters Card in 2019. The elections had become necessary following the demise of the former occupants who were both members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Recall that the two byelections were initially fixed for October 31 but were rescheduled because of the October #ENDSARS protest across the country. The INEC boss, however, said that the district has 1,343,448 registered voters spread across 71 wards, 1,928 polling units and 188 voting points. Olumekun stressed that 400,000 registered voters from Kosofe constituency 11 would participate in the Lagos State House of Assembly’s by-election which would be held the same day. Read Also: Lagos East senatorial by-election: Abiru’s chances bright despite baseless attacks He said that the registered voters in the Lagos East Senatorial district spread across five local government areas which comprise Somolu, Kosofe, Ibeju-lekki, Ikorodu, Epe, adding that the registered voters for the Kosofe constituency byelection were spread across six wards located in Ketu Alapere, Ikosi/ketu, Isheri/ Olowo-ora, Agboyi 11 and Odo/ajegunle. The INEC Commissioner assured all political parties and their candidates that the commission was working assiduously to conduct free and fair election, stressing that the latest technology would be used while the training of personnel had been done. “About 1.7 million is expected for both elections and these are voters who had collected their voters’ cards in 2019. We did not open up the collection of PVC’S, however, we would commence the distribution of PVC’S after the conduct of this election,” Olumekun said. Eight candidates from various political parties will be contesting the Kosofe Constituency II, Lagos State House of Assembly by-election. The contestants are: John Akerele (AA) Sadiq Olawale, AAC; Wasiu Saheed (APC) Adekunle Oladapo ( LP) Muyideen Agoro (NNPP) Ademorin Adelaja (NRM) Sikiru Alebiosu (PDP) and Mary Abojeh (ADC) The contestants for the senatorial elections are: Muyiwa Adebanjo, Action Alliance (AA); Mercy Adeoye, African Action Congress (AAC) and John Kome, African Democratic Congress (ADC). Others are: Adebowale Ogunlaru, Action Democratic Party (ADP); Adetokunbo Abiru, All Progressives Congress (APC); Olusola Babatope, Allied Peoples Movement (APM); Florence Trautman, Labour Party (LP) and Adijat Lawal, New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP).