 Since his departure became public Wednesday, November 11, condolences have continued to inundate the media. Nigerians, the low and mighty, have described him in flowering words. Among the deluge of condolences, a human rights activist, lawyer, professor, writer, and former chairman of Nigeria’s National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Chidi Odinkalu (@ChidiOdinkalu) tweeted: “Alhaji Abdulkadir Balarabe Musa was an extraordinary rarity among #Nigerian politicians: he was consistent & he was happy to practise what he preached. On his passing, it’s clear we have lost a man of extraordinary decency & character.” This aptly captured the man and the ideal he lived and died for. Balarabe Musa preached and exhibited modesty as a way of life, a lifestyle that is not consistent with today’s Nigerian politicians. He was a crusader for true democracy, and spoke so regrettably about the caricature of democracy in the country. Musa (21 August 1936 – 11 November 2020) was a left-wing Nigerian politician who was elected governor of the old Kaduna State, during the Nigerian Second Republic, holding office from October 1979 until he was impeached on 23 June 1981. During the Nigerian Fourth Republic he was leader of the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP), a coalition of opposition parties. He continued to be active in politics. He was the PRP candidate for the presidency in the April 2003 elections, selected in February 2003. However, without even enough money to print posters he was not successful. He loathed the ills in the electoral system in the country, and spoke out vehemently against such malfeasance. At a public lecture and reception in January 2009 in honour of former Oyo State governor, Lam Adesina, he said that electoral rigging had to be stopped. “We need a revolution in Nigeria to have a positive change in the political system”. In November 2009, Musa said that Nigeria’s economic system was based on narrow self-interest, with a disabling level of corruption, theft and waste of public resources. He was a “go-to” person and journalists’ delight, who was ever ready to comment on national issues, no matter how sensitive the matter. Unlike many politicians, Balarabe Musa never spoke tongue-in-cheek; neither did he play the ostrich when issues that demanded his comment arose. At various times, he spoke with the BusinessDay family on important national issues whenever his views were sought. Excerpts of his numerous recent interviews with BusinessDay are reproduced here to illustrate his easy-to-reach nature. ‘Why I endorsed new coalition’ While giving his support to the National Consultative Forum that some prominent Nigerians tried to set up some time ago, as a means of offering a new political alternative to Nigerians, he said such a Forum was needed because the country was in a pitiable state. But when asked if he had come in contact with the group, Balarabe said some members of the group had sought his blessing which he gave them because what they were trying to do was what he and other progressive governors in the Second Republic did. “They are forming a Consultative Forum to address the state of the nation, to see what they can do and I support them. I told them it is what we governors did then; meeting to take a stand and do the right thing,” he said. ‘Buhari should go beyond just signing the order’ When on May 20, 2020 President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Executive Order 10, giving financial autonomy to the legislature and judiciary at the state level, Balarabe Musa said: “I support it but that is not all; as the President of the country, Buhari should make sure that the legislature and the judiciary do not steal the money given to them. Fine, the Executive Order gives them autonomy but a mechanism to monitor how they use their resources must be put in place. For me, Buhari has those two responsibilities and he must make sure that is done.” ‘Almajiri: Nigeria sitting on a time-bomb, signs of failed government’ While faulting the Northern Governors and Federal Government’s handling of the Almajiri issue during the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic, he said that the country was sitting on a time-bomb. “What is happening to the Almajiri is a sign of irresponsible federal and incompetence and failed state governments. Let government institute free and compulsory education from primary to secondary level and Almajiri system would end. “The governors know this people are Nigerians and they have constitutional rights just like you and me. So, it is wrong for them to reject them from entering into their states,” he said. His reaction following the outbreak of Coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria “Government must give a guideline for the whole country to follow. As you can see this is an international problem, you don’t know how far it would go; the best thing is to care for humanity and the nation. So, personally, I think it was a mistake closing down Lagos, Ogun and FCT only. I think there would have been restriction for the whole country, this is a global problem; Nigerians must listen to what the Federal Government is saying whether you doubt or not because there is no alternative. On Sanusi’s dethronement as Emir of Kano When in March this year, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje dethroned the 14th Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, Balarabe Musa said: “I am not surprised; I saw it coming. But I am indifferent about all what happened today. Personally, what I am after is that what has been done today by the governor should be within the law; it is the law that should be respected and not the governor of Kano State.” ‘Abiola deserves all entitlements as President’ He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately declare the full result of the 1993 presidential election and give full entitlement deserving of a president of the country to the late Moshood Kashimawo Abiola. This he said following Buhari’s announcement that the Democracy Day anniversary in the country would thenceforth be marked on June 12, in honour of the late philanthropist, while acknowledging that Abiola won the election which was unjustly annulled by the military regime headed by Ibrahim Babangida. His rating of Buhari administration He believed that Buhari’s military background in addressing ethnic agitations in the country was affecting his performance. He said the Buhari-led Federal Government had not shown seriousness in using dialogue to resolve agitations from different geopolitical zones of the country. He tasked Buhari to show that he is now a converted democrat by using dialogue to settle crises rocking the country. The former governor, who described Buhari’s first year in office as a waste, said he doubted whether the President would make the most of the remaining three years of his tenure. “Former President Musa Yar’Adua understood the importance of dialogue which enabled him to put a halt to militancy in the Niger Delta. But what do we have now? Tension and agitation in different parts of the country,” he said. ‘Those instigating electoral violence must be punished’ Balarabe Musa, recommended punitive measures to check the dangerous trend of electoral violence to save the nation’s democracy. “We have to punish anybody who is seen to be instigating violence and stop them from contesting elections. It is because we are tolerating them, that is why all these are happening. If we are serious about free and fair election in Nigeria, this ugly trend must be checked. What happened in Kogi and Bayelsa is a shame on this country,” he said.