 In a bid to sustain its rich theatre tradition, the Duke of Shomolu Productions is returning this December with ‘Our Duke Has Gone Mad Again’, a beautifully written anthology of works running the whole gamut of emotions. The play is riding on the success of six previous theatrical productions by the ingenious theatre company including; ‘Loud Whispers’, ‘Isale Eko’, ‘Oba Esugbayi’, ‘3some’, ‘Emotan’, and ‘Aremu’. ‘Our Duke Has Gone Mad Again’is a family-friendly production, which will run for two days, between December 25-26, 2020, at the serene The Finery, Probyn Road Ikoyi, Lagos. Moreover, the play is directed by Segun Adefila, with William Benson serving as coordinating director, Ibiene Ogolo, Mofoluwake Edgar and Olisa Adibua, co-executive producers, and also features a cast of professional actors including; Patrick Diabuah, Kelvin Mary Ndukwe, Kemi Bickersteth, and Chantal Edgar. As anticipated, the show will engage the audience by mirroring life generally, and even their lives through the eyes of the Duke of Shomolu. Although a skeletal version was shown by Segun Adefila in his Arts Place in Bariga, recently, audiences would be seeing it for the very first time in its robust form. According to Joseph Edgar, founder of Duke of Shomolu Productions, the play is a massively different production, from cast to the venue; lush gardens nestled in upper-class Ikoyi, and to the dress code prescribed for attendees and the celebration of prominent Nigerians who have supported the Duke of Shomolu and Nigerian theatre by extension. “Our Duke Has Gone Mad Again’ is a beautifully written anthology of works running the whole gamut of emotions ranging from excitement at life down to the sharp pain of sorrow occasioned by the loss of a loved one. “The monologue will serve as a soothing balm on society just emerging from the ravages of the pandemic serving as a guide and as an arrowhead on the way to self-reawaking. They will provide unusual entertainment while addressing issues of life and living”, Edgar said.