 Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State Thursday officially joined the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) and said he is now free from the dictatorship of PDP leadership where few individuals decide the faith of its members. He spoke during the defection ceremony which took place at the Ecumenical Center Abakaliki with the Attorney General of the Federation, and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, Governors of Kebbi, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Jigawa, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, Yobe state, Mai Mala Buni, Niger state, Abubakar Sani Bello, minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Sadiya Faruk among other dignitaries in attendance. Meanwhile, Ogbonnaya Onu, Chief Austin Edeze, and other major southeast APC stakeholders were absent in the event. Speaking during the defection, Governor Umahi explained that he resigned from PDP was as a result of unfulfilled promises of the party to Ndigbo as well as the high handedness of some leaders of the party. He described his defection as a marriage consummated by God and therefore no bitterness or fear. Umahi said Ebonyi as a PDP person, has forgiven everyone in APC and gave the assurance that everyone in APC has forgiven PDP as well. “I have sacrificed myself, for the interest of southeast and Ebonyi state, in particular, I sacrifice myself. We have dwelt so much in one political party and it’s time to move to the centre. We are so grateful to God who directs our affairs, we thank Mr. President so highly who have helped us to develop this state, we are grateful to him. The help of Mr. President has transformed our state Ebonyi “This is the will of God, you cannot truncate the will of God. Today, I can boldly say that this marriage of PDP and APC consumed by APC National party that our state is 99.9% APC. The .001% is the room I have left for my National Assembly members. Do not castigate them, they are looking for something and when they get it, they will come back. Don’t castigate them, they are my children and I love them so much. “We have three members of the elders’ council, do not castigate them. They are my children, I am the father of the state, they will come back, we are together. They no dey do opposition in Ebonyi state, they will come back. “This new house that is built on trust, that is built on justice, that is built on equity and fairness, this new house that is built on love is going to accommodate all of us. Together we are stronger, the bigger the better. Let us together approach the throne of God with boldness, we will not remember yesterday. There is no victor, there is no vanquish in this marriage. it is a marriage that is consummated by God and therefore no bitterness. We as PDP people, forgive everyone in APC and we have drawn assurance that everyone in APC has forgiven PDP. I have dissolved the elders’ council to accommodate our brothers and sisters that are coming from APC and this is very important to note. “We have to launch out to the centre, we are tired of empty promises, we want action now. I therefore today as my Deputy Governor has said, we have moved into APC, the Governor united with his Deputy in one together with 110 exco members with 1200 appointees of Executive Assistants, Senior Technical Assistants, and Technical Assistants. We have 374 liaison officers, we are together in these movements. We have 400 appointees of boards and commissions, we have 560 management committee members, we have 130 supervisors, we have all the 13 local government chairmen and all the vice-chairmen and all the legislators everywhere in Ebonyi state. We are all together in this movement. Above all, we have 3 million Ebonyians that have embraced this party that is developing our state, 3million Ebonyians together in this journey to APC. “Let me tell you something, let your heart not fail you, no man has your destiny. When mere men tell me that I will regret this movement, I have examined myself and I have consulted God. There is a saying that says that if serving God, there is no heaven, that the peace of righteousness on earth is enough reward. The reward of freedom; freedom from dictatorship, freedom from one or two people deciding the affairs of men is gone. We are free at last and we have moved into blessings. The lawmaker representing Ezza South/ Ikwo federal constituency Hon. Chinedu Ogah, in his remarks, said for the development of Ebonyi State all the national assembly members will work together with the state Governor and federal government. Former Senate President, Senator Ken Nnamani on his part said Governor Umahi is taking Igbo back to her root as Ndigbo are not known for the opposition. He further pointed out that the South East doesn’t have the indices to be in opposition and commend Governor Umahi for taking the bold and courageous step and urged stakeholders of Ebonyi State to support him. Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Chairman Governor Mai Mala Buni said the defection of Governor Umahi was timely especially now they are rebuilding APC from the grassroots. “Your Excellency, your entrance is timely and appropriate because you are coming into the party at a time we have started rebuilding this party from bottom-up, and to rebuild this party, we have started reconciliation and now we in the second phase about to start the membership registration across the county”, he said.