 Elder Statesman, Tanko Yakassai believes that the #EndSARS protest was a hidden agenda of some elements in Nigeria to disintegrate the country. In this interview with INNOCENT ODOH, the 95-year-old northern politician says the alleged plotters have failed and should be reminded that they cannot toy with the destiny of the country. He also believes that those calling for restructuring are bent on destroying Nigeria, adding that Nigerians are not as divided as is being insinuated. Excerpts: Some days ago, governors of the northern region described the #EndSARS protest as a plot to change the government. What is your thought on the interpretation of the governors? My own position is that the governors are actually diplomatic. I believe that the protest was aimed at breaking the country up. In the last three or four years there have been some scheming and conspiracies aimed at breaking up the country. I have been following events since the beginning of this abnormal situation, and the trend tallied with my own fears and concerns. But thank God, whether it is a move to break up the country or not those who planned it have been told by the country that they are wrong in thinking that they can take the country for a ride. They have not succeeded. Many people would be worried about what you are saying about what was largely regarded as a peaceful protest… Cuts in… Not everybody likes the truth, because the truth is not palatable as far as I am concerned. A lot of people will challenge your assertion that the #EndSARS protest was a plot to dismember the country. So, why do you believe that? Why did the protest not stop when the president disbanded the SARS? Why did it continue for days after? How do you explain the reason for the protest not stopping, since it was against SARS even after the President quickly accepted their demands? You can even see how criminals have taken advantage of the situation. The #EndSARS protest even though was primarily targeted at the police unit is actually said to be a metaphor for all that is wrong with the Nigerian state, especially the governance system. So, if you said it was a plot to dismember the country, how would you reconcile the fact that the young protesters actually displayed the Nigerian flag and other symbols of national unity? Why should they protest with the national flag? Where have you seen in a demonstration where protesters used national flags? I am 95 years old and I have been in this business for the last 70 years and I studied revolutionary strategies. Look, when people want to make a revolution, they will cook up something that will look innocent to attract innocent people and later change the characters. If the protest was for the reasons that you have just adduced, then why did they not say it from the beginning? Why did they say #EndSARS? They know that everybody was not happy with SARS because they were acting against the rules different from the original reasons they were created. You have made your opinion known on the question of restructuring, which suggests you are not in support of the clamour for it. What do you say about the resurgent call for restructuring of the country? I have never made my opinion public about restructuring. Can you tell me my opinion on the matter? You have always asked people what they mean exactly by restructuring. So, what is your take on it now? Yes, because I wanted to know the content so that I will make up my mind and I am asking why they are hiding the character of the restructuring they have in mind? That is why in my own interpretation, I said they have a hidden agenda for the destruction of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The only thing is that they are not sure whether the people will go along with them, so they kept it quiet. They are testing the waters to see what would be the attitude of the generality of Nigerians whether they are going to support them or not. But I believe the government is trying to address some of these issues. The Senate has set up a committee to go round the country and hear from Nigerians on how to tinker with the Constitution that we are operating today. Governance is not static; it is a dynamic thing particularly in a developing society. So, whoever has anything in mind aimed at changing the Constitution of Nigeria should make his representation at the Senate committee. The poor governance system has brought about so much hardship in the country as unemployment and poverty are ravaging the people especially under the current administration. Nigeria is also said to be more divided now and sitting on the keg of a gun powder. What is your thought on this? If you say that Nigeria is more divided now than before, I will not agree with you, because I have been in Nigeria before you. When young people are protesting, does that mean Nigeria is divided? Come to Kano and go round, you will see shops owned by different Nigerians particularly from the eastern part of the country. Go to the south you will see houses of people from the north in the South East, South West and South-South. They were not like that before. Nigerians are more united now than before because the majority of Nigerians were born after independence, they know no other country except Nigeria.