 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of manipulating and frustrating efforts by the majority of Nigerians for a genuine restructuring. It also accused the ruling party of plans to smuggle Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led APC restructuring committee into the National Assembly instead of the 2014 National Conference Report. The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, described the plot as an unpardonable assault on the sensibility of over 200 million Nigerians, whose collective interests were contained in the conference report. The statement said, “Nigerians are also alerted of a fresh ploy by some ambitious APC leaders to blackmail the legislature and create an impression of commitment to restructuring, just to beguile the people and soften the ground for their personal political and particularly, presidential ambitions ahead of the 2023 elections. READ ALSO: While government mounts pressure, majority of Nigerians want unrestricted internet “Our party stands at the forefront of efforts for genuine restructuring, but we hold that the authentic materials for a genuine restructuring are contained in the 2014 National Conference report, wherein, Nigerians, across all the divides, collectively provided a road map out of our constitutional quagmires; and not a partisan report by the APC. “It is therefore unacceptable that the 2014 National Conference report, which embodies the desires and hopes of over 200 million Nigerians, has been shelved by President Muhammadu Buhari, since his predecessor in office, President Goodluck Jonathan, personally handed it over to him in 2015 for implementation in line with the wishes and aspirations of the people. “Our party, therefore, charges President Muhammadu Buhari to bring out the 2014 National Conference Report, dust it up and present it as an executive bill to the National Assembly to guide the desired amendment to the 1999 Constitution (as amended) with regard to restructuring.” The PDP warned that the APC should not lord its report over Nigerians against decisions reached by majority of Nigerians at the National Conference. It advised the ruling party to embark on restructuring that would promote true federalism, devolution of powers, electoral reforms and unbundling of critical items in the exclusive list, which the PDP is canvassing. The statement added, “It is rather unfortunate that those who hid in their shores to dismiss and blackmail the PDP on restructuring are now coming out today to sell the cosmetic and partisan notion of restructuring to Nigerians as a decoy to further their selfish political ambitions. “If the APC is indeed sincere, it should call on President Buhari to immediately do the needful, today, not tomorrow, by presenting the 2014 National Conference report to the National Assembly as an executive bill on restructuring as desired by Nigerians. “What our country needs today is a restructuring that is genuinely derived from the people and which guarantees true federalism, equity, justice, fairness as well as national cohesion, and not a partisan document being bandied by the APC.”