 Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri has given reasons why former President Goodluck Jonathan saved democracy in Nigeria and became the face of democracy and strong advocate of non-violent elections in the world. Diri stressed at Otuoke weekend during the burial of Jonathan’s cousin, Nitabai Inengite, said the historic phone call the former president made in conceding defeat to President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 saved democracy in Nigeria. A statement by Doubara Atasi, Special Assistant on Media to the Deputy Governor said the governor who was represented by his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, who noted that Jonathan’s show of patriotism and love would remain a good reference point to other democratic countries including the United States of America. His words, “We all know what is happening in the United States, a country most of us regarded as the best example of democracy. But, considering what Trump is doing with his supporters, you will agree with me that our father (Jonathan) did what so many leaders in the world cannot do. “Our brother and father has elevated Nigeria above the United States. I say this with all sense of responsibility because when you compare the margin of defeat in 2015 and the margin of defeat today in the US, you can know the difference. “Yet, our father for the love of self and love of all of us and for the love our country and the African continent relinquished power without any doubt.” Diri described the late Nitabai as a man of principles with deep family values who was committed to the development of his community and humanity. He called on Bayelsans to be united and urged the youth to emulate the deceased by leading peaceful lifestyles and never allow their backgrounds to define their destinies. While expressing condolences on behalf of the Government and people of the state, the Governor prayed God to grant Jonathan, the Inengite family and Otuoke Community, the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. In his remarks, the former President Goodluck Jonathan expressed gratitude to Governor Diri, his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo and all who turned up for the funeral. Later in an interview, Jonathan described his late cousin as an amiable man who served the Esosi Family, Otuoke Community, the Rivers State University and Niger Delta University creditably.