 The Omor Royal Cabinet, and the Omor Supreme Elders’ Council have resolved that the 2020 Ofala Festival of Igwe Omor, would be celebrated in a low-key, at Igulube Royal Palace, Omor. This is in view of the challenges brought about by Covid-19 pandemic. This resolution is also in response to the extant Anambra State Government’s Covid-19 protocols on hygiene and safety, which among other measures, stipulates a gathering of not more than 30 people. Consequently, the Omor Royal Cabinet and the Omor Supreme Council, during its monthly meeting held in October, 2020, at the Igwe’s palace, agreed that the basic ceremony of the “Ofala, Omor-in-Focus”, which is a world press conference, will be held on December 11, 2020. Eze Ana-Ukwu and members of the Omor Royal Cabinet and Omor Supreme Elders’ Council are expected to participate in the activity. His Royal Highness, Igwe Oranu Chris Chidume, Eze Ana-Ukwu, Eze Igulube of Omor, in a statement signed by Benedict Alechenu Michael, his press secretary, affirmed that conferment and induction of qualified individuals into the prestigious OzoOmor, would hold on December 12, 2020. However recipients of the title are not permitted to come with friends to avoid crowding the location. “NdiIchieNta, NdiIchieUkwu, NdiIchie Aka-akwu, NdiNzeOmor and other indigenes of Omor town will converge on their quarters; to observe the festival in strict compliance to Covid-19 guidelines. “In consideration of the above resolutions, which is a departure from the pomp and elegance characteristic of the festival, His Royal Highness’ usual Ofala largesse to his subjects will be delivered to them in their respective quarters and not in the palace, as is customary during the festival. “The Ogbagidigidi Omor; a symbolic representation of Igulube (locust), which signifies Omor’s numerical strength and a critical highpoint of the event will not feature in this year’s festival. “Also, homage to the Igwe, by his subjects, friends and well-wishers will not be observed,” he said. Reflecting further on other events that shaped the year 2020, His Royal Highness pointed out that aside the Covid-19 pandemic, the year has been fraught with many other challenges, which significantly affected the community and the country at large. He stated that in May, 2020, the Anambra State government waded into the skirmishes between farmers of Omor and Umumbo extractions rising from claims to designated land clusters at Lower Anambra Irrigation Project at Omor. The clusters in contention were E71, E72, E8, E9 and E10. The crisis resulted to wanton loss of lives and destruction of properties, a development that affected economic activities of the community. Also Omor was affected by the flooding witnessed in different parts of the country. As an agrarian community, farmlands were submerged by the flood. The #EndSARS movement, which saw protests erupting in different parts of the country, distorted economic activities in the country, as government enacted curfew to quell the unrest. These events, His Highness maintained, called for sober reflection. “The year definitely is not a year of effusive celebrations, but calls for sober reflection.” His Royal Highness, therefore, appealed to all Omor indigenes, both at home and in the Diaspora, as well as their friends and well-wishers, who had wished to be part of this year’s ceremony, to bear with them. “We hope that in subsequent years, the festival will be conducted with all the pomp and ceremony with characteristics of Omor Ana-Ukwu”.