 The resignation of Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki from the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday elicited divergent reactions from politicians in the state. Those that spoke to BusinessDay on telephone are, Anselm Ojezua, factional chairman of APC in the state; David Imuse, also a factional chairman of the party in the state; Peter Obadan, former deputy governor to John Odigie-Oyegun; Peter Aguele, chairman, Esan South- East local government; Frank Okiye, Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly and Frank Ilaboya, chairman, Owan West local government. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, following his disqualification from contesting the forthcoming September 19, 2020 governorship election by the party’s screening committee, announced his resignation from the party, after meeting with the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Gambari. There are speculations that the governor will formally defect to the main opposition party, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), today, June 17. Speaking on the governor’s resignation, Anselm Ojezua, stated that the party has lost an asset in the person of the governor in the state. Ojezua who is the chairman of the faction loyal to the governor, said the resignation of the governor did not come to him as a surprise. “The resignation of the governor did not come to me as a surprise though I am very saddened by the development. I think APC has lost a huge asset”, he said. On whether the faction is going with Obaseki, he said ” we met last Saturday and the state working committee of the party is meeting tomorrow and after our meeting we will make statement,” He however, added that at the moment, he is still the chairman of the APC, as he was elected, and the matter is in court and would pursue it to a logical conclusion. In his reaction, the former deputy governor of the state, Peter Obadan, argued that the resignation of Governor Godwin Obaseki from the All Progressives Congress (APC), will not affect the fortune of the party in the forthcoming September 19, governorship election in the state. Obadan, who was deputy to Governor John Odigie-Oyegun on the platform of the Social Democratic Party, opined that the decision to resign from the party was entirely that of the governor, and not require any formal application. According to him, if he decided to resign from APC, well, it is entirely his decision. At that level you don’t question what a man does.It is only entitled to reasonable decision, If he considers that as reasonable. “If he thinks APC is no longer a place for him, and you cannot blend with the people, and you are not progressive you may take a leave. I am not blaming him. “His departure may even enhance the fortune of the party in his unit and ward. So, I don’t think it will affect the party in the forthcoming governorship election,” he said. David Imuse, factional chairman loyal to the national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, described the governor’s resignation from the party as a welcome development. Imuse, added that the resignation was much expected and a good riddance to bad rubbish. “The party remains the party, we are preparing for our party primaries so by Monday all of you should be prepared to witness the direct primaries which is going to be a seamless operation because the major pollutant and irritant in our party has filtered himself out so the party is in a joyous mood,” he added. On his part, Peter Aguele, the Chairman of Esan South-East Local government said “what the governor has done is what any democratic person would do. “You cannot unjustly disefranchise someone. Basically, we are 100 percent with the governor. Wherever, the governor goes, we will go”, he added. The Chairman of Owan West, Frank Ilaboya, also described the resignation of the governor from the party as a positive step. “This is wonderful news and we expected it. We the local government chairmen have resolved that where ever the governor goes we will go with him. “Rather than weaken the overwhelming support, the disqualification has caused a buoyant and enthusiastic response of support for the governor across the state. “As the Chairman of the council, I will ensure that I drive the process to ensure that Obaseki succeeds and we have resolved that we will follow him wherever he goes”, he stated. Edo State governor, while announcing his formal resignation from, the party after meeting with the Chief of Staff to Muhammadu Buhari promised to continue the battle to protect the interest of Edo people and sustain good governance in the state. “I have officially resigned my membership of the All Progressives Congress after meeting with the Chief of Staff to Muhammadu Buhari. “We shall continue the battle to protect the interest of Edo people and sustain good governance in the state,” he said.