 Ahead of the July 20 All Progressives Congress (APC) primary and October 10 governorship election in Ondo State, the Convener of Ibi Giga Ambassadors, Alex Ajipe, has appealed to the National Leadership and members of the party in the state to support the re-election of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to enable him consolidate on the gains of his first term in the interest of the state’s future. Ajipe, an industrialist, made the appeal at a political forum in Akure, the state capital, against the backdrop of the political manoeuvring currently playing out ahead of the governorship poll in the state, explaining that the Akeredolu’s re-election would further engender socio-economic growth and development of the state. According to him, majority of Governor Akeredolu’s projects are set up to secure future for generations yet unborn in the state. He maintained that it would remain unforgettable, the governor’s unprecedented efforts at opening up the state for economic prosperity, developing infrastructure in terms of roads and classrooms construction as well as massive investments facilitated by his administration as anchored at Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub, Ore. “If I should talk about Mr. Governor’s achievements, I can talk from now till tomorrow. When you see a project like Ondo State afforestation is for the future of this state, Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub is now a reality which has silent opposition,” he said. Ajipe, who is also the manager of Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub and CEO of Klick Konnect International, spoke on how leadership qualities of Akeredolu should be appreciated as the race for the 2020 polls gets tougher.
“Second term agenda (of Aketi) is an agenda of everybody; is everybody’s project. Aketi is not a comedian; he has shown he means business of good governance. “Aketi has gone beyond appellation; Aketi is no longer an alias; Aketi is now Movement. “He said Ondo state must be accessible from Lagos, from Abuja and the East, today we can see that vision is being actualised; you can access Ondo State now and the ease of doing business here is huge,” he said. According to him, “Generations yet unborn will remember Governor Akeredolu with Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub. Aketi has proven enemies and opposition wrong. Nobody has accused of nonperformance.” Recall that Ibi Giga Ambassadors group is one of the numerous political groups with Ondo State lawmakers who raised N35million, out of which, a cheque of N22.5million was presented to Akeredolu to obtain the APC 2020 governorship Expression of Interest and Nomination forms ahead of the July 20 primaries.