 The People’s Democratic Party (PDP), on Monday, called on the Inspector-General of Police, Adamu Muhammed to redeploy the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami over his alleged lop-sidedness and partisanship. READ ALSO:  Ondo 2020: Akeredolu’s deputy, Ajayi, resigns from APC to run against Akeredolu in PDP The National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, while speaking in Akure on Monday at the Party’s Secretariat, insisted that the activities of CP Salami no longer guarantee equal field for all political parties ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo state. Recall that on Saturday evening, there was a mild drama at the Ondo State Government House, Alagbaka in Akure, when Police officers led by Salami, prevented the Deputy Governor, RAgboola Ajayi from moving out of the Government House over an allegation that he was planning to dump the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the PDP. But Secondus, who came to Akure to welcome the Deputy Governor, Ajayi back to PDP, said the CP had compromised all known neutrality in the discharge of his duties, by not allowing the Deputy governor to move out of his official lodge based on the directive given to him by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The PDP National Chairman lamented that the Salami’s actions and body language had indicated that he is working for APC in order to support the incumbent governor, Akeredolu in the forthcoming guber poll. “Election is for people to choose their leader, so we want to advise our security agencies that enough is enough. They should be at their duty post to make sure that everyone is secure not to assist the APC. What happened in Ondo state on Saturday evening was an eye opener and we want to warn the CP to stop all this mess. “CP Salami should be warned not to interfere with the issue of politics in Ondo state and we will take the matter up to the National level. He must be posted out for the sake of peace ahead of the poll”, he said. While commenting on Ajayi’s defection back to the PDP, Secondus said his exit from the ruling APC to PDP was the act of God. His words: “We are here on behalf of the National Working Committee (NWC) to join hand with our brother, Agboola Ajayi and the good people of Ondo state to welcome you back to PDP. The significance of our visit, today is to show the entire Ondo people that PDP is a mass movement upon this country and God is behind it. “We strongly believe and know that your coming back to PDP will be a great thing; it will be like a tsunami, APC members are still coming to PDP. “What is happening in this country today is not by our power or by our might but we believe that this is God’s time. APC has fooled this nation for the past five years and people are now wiser. APC has damaged this country, damaged the economy, security and damaged what we know as Nigerians. APC has failed woefully. “We believe that with this mass movement in Ondo state, it will move to other states and I believe that Ajayi is going to add value to the party. “Let me say it clearly that power belongs to God, we in the PDP are under the rules and we must improve on it and the Deputy governor has said that he is not coming to alter the rules or seek for any favour from the party but we know that with him and others joining the party we can reclaim Ondo state from APC so that people can have fresh air and good governance. “We want to assure all the aspirants and the entire members of the party that we are going to conduct free, fair and credible primaries so that everyone can see in the open not in secret. Our coming here today is not to endorse a particular aspirant, it is for the generality of the people.” In his comment, the Deputy governor, Ajayi urged the IGP to redeem the image of the police by posting CP Salami out of the state. “Ondo Police Commissioner is the commissioner of APC in the state. If this did not happen we wouldn’t have known that this man was planted to come and rig election in the state. But I warn him that he should not come here to rig election. If he tries it, Ondo state people will resist him. “I am not just a member of PDP, but a founding member of the party. I have prepared my mind, I’m ready to abide by the constitution of the party. The people on the other side know that our exit from APC will give victory to PDP. I am back to my home. We have come to add value to this party. We are ready for any intimidation”, Ajayi said. Also speaking, Ayodele Fayose, former Ekiti state governor, stated that the Deputy Governor, who had returned to PDP, was in a wrong address when he left the party in 2016. He tasked the people of the state that “We will all come around to take a pound of flesh by ballot. “Ondo State is ripe for harvest, very ripe for harvest. The house that is built with saliva will be destroyed by dew. If one has been stealing, one day he will still and be caught.” According to him, “APC has been steeling in Nigeria: stole in Ekiti, stole in Osun State, stole in Lagos and stole everywhere.” At the event, about 36 members of the APC decamped with the Deputy governor to PDP and they were received by the National Chairman of the party.