 The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday took a worrisome dimension when the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party inaugurated Worgu Boms as its Acting Deputy National Secretary to replace the holder of office, Victor Giadom. Giadom who assumed the position of APC Acting National Chairman last week after Appeal Court upheld the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole, was replaced by Boms, following the nomination from the Rivers State Chapter of the party on the ground that he had resigned his position to contest for APC Deputy Governorship candidate in the State. Administering the oath of office on Boms, Acting factional National Chairman of APC, Hilliard Eta, said he would carry out all functions of the Deputy National Secretary as provided by the constitution of the party. Responding to inauguration of his successor, Giadom said it was the height of impunity by the Oshiomhole faction of the party to have smuggled someone into the NWC without election and convention. “That is laughable. Remember I was elected at the National Convention and we have told Nigerians that that level of impunity and rascality in this party must be corrected. You cannot smuggle somebody into the NWC without an election. “Anybody who wants to be a member of the NWC should present himself or herself for a democratic election. So, you cannot just bring somebody from anywhere to fill any office in the NWC. That is laughable and it cannot work”, he said. Meanwhile, a group known as Concerned APC Members has called on the National Executive Committee (NEC) which is the highest decision making organ of the party, to immediately meet and dissolve the National Working Committee with immediate effect. The group which staged a protest at APC National Secretariat, Abuja said the aims and objectives of the Party were being bastardised and the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari is being destroyed while his hard-earned reputation is being dragged by the incessant activities of the National Working Committee of the party. Addressing journalists, the Convener, Concerned APC Members, Okpokwu Ogenyi lamented that the present National Working Committee has caused us to loose seven (7) States to the opposition. He explained that: “APC had twenty four (24) Governors before the present National Working Committee, today, we have eighteen (18), Governors. Just yesterday, the Deputy Governor of Ondo State has just left us and joined the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Are we making progress or going backward? “Today, we have four individuals who are members of the National Working Committee parading themselves as Acting National Chairmen of our Party, what a dance of shame! We are being ridiculed on daily bases. The same Working Committee caused the Party not to feature candidates in Zamfara and Rivers States in the 2019 general elections. “In 2019, our Party, the All Progressives Congress Progressives built on integrity and Anti-corruption sold it nomination forms three hundred percent (300%) above all other political parties even when we cried out, they went ahead with their evil plot against concerned Party Members. “The uncoordinated activities of the National Working Committee has given rooms to the low esteem opposition members to criticize our Party and the government. It is on record, that no previous administration was able to achieve half of what President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has achieved in five(5)years, yet, Mr. President is being distracted on daily bases by the people who ought to protect his legacy. “Fellow patriotic members of the APC, just as the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is killing corruption before corruption kills Nigeria, as a Party, we must do away with the present National Working Committee before it kills the Party completely, the time is now! “We also call on President Muhammadu Buhari whose integrity the Party is still surviving, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu the National Leader of our great Party, the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt Hon. Femi Gbajablamila to support the dissolution of the present National Working Committee if we must move on as a Party. “We wish to unequivocally state that, any attempt to further keep this National Working Committee as the Working Committee of the Party is to send the APC into its early grave. We shall not continue to fold our arms and allow our collective efforts being ruined”.