 The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State now has a candidate for the September 19 governorship election in the state. He is Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who ran for governorship in the state in 2016 on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Ize-Iyamu, who is widely believed to be the anointed candidate of the national leadership of the APC, on Monday polled a total of 27,838 votes in a direct primary election conducted across the 192 wards in the 18 local government areas of the state, defeating Pius Odubu, deputy to former Governor Adams Oshiomhole. Odubu polled 3,766 votes while Osaro Obaze, former chairman of Oredo local government council, scored 2,744 votes. He will be facing whoever becomes the standard-bearer of the PDP and other parties in the governorship election. Announcing the result in Benin city on Monday, Hope Uzodinma, Imo State governor and chairman of the governorship primary election committee, said of the three persons cleared to contest the election, the committee received a notice of withdrawal from two aspirants. “Out of the three people cleared to contest the primaries, before the election commenced we got notice of withdrawal from two aspirants. We have been keeping with the Electoral Act as amended insisting that the election must go on. “From the calculations, Pastor Osagie Ize-iyamu who scored a total of 27,838 has the highest number of votes cast in the election and is hereby returned a candidate of APC for the forthcoming governorship election “I want to use this opportunity to thank all members of the party, security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for participating in this very transparent and one of the most clinically delivered exercise in the history of our democracy since 1999. “I want to congratulate our candidate and the maturity displayed by the other two,” Uzodinma said. In his acceptance speech, Osagie Ize-iyamu expressed gratitude to the contenders. While appealing to Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki to return to the party, he called for cohesive house. “I am naturally happy and humbled by the overwhelming support from the 18 LGA. I am so elated that there was no incident of violence and we were able to do the primary without violating the government’s COVID-19 regulation,” he said.