 In the wake of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and shutdown of schools nationwide, Olufemi Shonubi, general manager, EduTech, has called on the federal government of Nigeria to decentralise the learning process for school children, as the negative effect of the pandemic has necessitated the search for a convenient school system to strengthen learning in the country. EduTech is an establishment geared towards transforming education with hands-on and technology-based learning solutions in educational campuses and organisations. Shonubi said although this model was still desirable in the country due to the gap between demand and access to quality education, the outbreak of COVID-19 has made it so imperative that any country that delays in adopting it will play catch-up in the future and pay the price with low skilled and half-baked graduates. “In recent years, the provision of e-learning solutions was necessitated by the growing gap between demand and access to education. Considering the current situation brought about by the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, however, we are finding that e-learning solutions are needed now more than ever,” he said. In a bid to lead the way and expand education technology, EduTech has successfully launched a new e-learning platform, VigiLearn 3.0, which will enable individuals to gain valuable knowledge through short courses as well as full degrees from reputable Nigerian universities. According to Shonubi, the launch of VigiLearn 3.0, EduTech is perfectly poised to provide access to quality education to all and sundry. Learners, whether at undergraduate, postgraduate or even professional levels will experience unparalleled ease as they have a unique opportunity to add value to themselves during this period of isolation and thereafter. “VigiLearn 3.0 is the latest installment in a series of learning management platforms introduced by EduTech, and it boasts of an improved virtual classroom experience improved user management capabilities, big data analytics and seamless social networking functions which all combine to provide a significantly improved user experience for platform administrators, tutors and learners” he said. The VigiLearn platform presently houses e-learning content for nine-degree programmes across Ahmadu Bello University and Obafemi Awolowo University which has given individuals the opportunity to gain undergraduate and postgraduate degrees without putting their lives on hold. All degree programmes enjoy National Universities Commission (NUC) accreditation.