 Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki, has officially joined the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The announcement comes after days of speculation that the governor was planning to leave the APC The governor made this known on Friday at the party’s Secretariat in Benin city, the Edo state capital. He said, “I have officially joined the to advance my ambition to seek re-election as Governor of Edo State. “I, as always, remain committed to engendering good governance and sustainable development of our dear state. The governor cited injustice and other anti-democratic practices of the National Working Committee of the party as well as the governorship primary election committee that disqualified him from contesting the primary election. The governor was received by the state chairman of the PDP, Tony Aziegbemi, party chieftains including Matthew Urhoghide, Clifford Ordia and the entire state executive committee. Speaking further, the governor, who noted that the PDP has demonstrated and shown that it is a party rooted in democratic practices, however promised to provide leadership that will lead the party to victory. According to him, members of the state executive committee of the PDP, teeming supporters and members of PDP. I am here this afternoon, to inform you that upon my resignation from the All Progressives Congress, I have now decided, having consulted very wisely within the state and across the country, to become a member of PDP. “Today, I am here to go through the formality of registering as a member of this great party. I understand fully well the implications of this decision. I know that upon taking up membership of this party, I automatically become the leader of this party, that is the constitution; I read it thoroughly last night.   “The PDP in my view has demonstrated and shown that it is a party that is rooted in a democratic practices; party that believes in justice and fairness”,he said. ” I am prepared to provide leadership that will not only put PDP in office in Edo state but I will ensure that the level of progress, level of participation in the political system by our people is unrivalled. “I am very happy to be here, the reception I have received since I got in here has been ecstatic. The energy I see in this party is the kind of energy I require to take Edo to the level we should go to next. “If you think we have done anything in the last four year, you have not seen anything yet because with the quality of people I am seeing here, by the grace of God, I am committing to you that I will not only lead this party to victory in Edo state, I will also make that this party establishes an example of how things will be run in Africa. “So, today, it is with great pleasure I have come to formally take membership of this party”,he added. While responding, the PDP state chairman , Tony Aziegbemi, assured the governor of full cooperation, noting that the party does not discriminate. “Obaseki is free to participate in the PDP governorship primary election coming up on Tuesday June 23, 2020 as he has already obtained the nomination form and have been given a waiver to contest the primaries as other PDP aspirants. The governor was accompanied by serving commissioners, APC chieftains loyal to the governor, Kabiru Adjoto, immediate past speaker of the State House of Assembly, local government chairmen among others. 14 members of State House of Assembly, 18 Local Governement Chairmen, 196 councillors and the entire members of state executive council have also official moved to the PDP. 