 The Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has appointed the former Senate President, Ken Nnamani and the Governor of Niger State, Abubakar Bello as chairmen of the party’s reconciliation committees for Edo and Ondo States, respectively. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of APC, Yekini Nabena in statement on Tuesday said it was in line with the process of true reconciliation among leaders and members of the party at all levels as announced by the National Chairman of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai-Mala Buni of Yobe State. According to the statement, the Edo State Reconciliation Committee has Babatunde Fashola, Fetus Keyamo,Tahir Mamman, Margaret Okadigbo and Sanusi Musa as members while Abdul-Rahman Sumaila  is the Secretary. The Ondo State Reconciliation Committee has Adamu Aliero, Bamidele Opeyemi, Gambon Magaji, Jasper Azuwatalum, Binta Muazu and Iquo Inyang as members with Shina Pellar as Secretary. Meanwhile, APC has debunked a rumour about a purported zoning arrangement for the planned National Convention of the party which has gone viral on the social media. The party’s Spokesperson, Nabena advised party members, supporters, stakeholders and the general public to disregard the purported zoning arrangement as it is fake news. “The inaugural meeting of the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CEONCPC) which held at the APC National Secretariat on Monday did not discuss or issue the fake zoning arrangement for the planned National Convention. “If and when a zoning arrangement is made for the planned National Convention, it will be officially communicated and publicised. “The meeting unanimously adopted a six-point working document aimed at repositioning the party. “Members also renewed their commitment to work as a family in the interest of the party and appealed to all leaders and members to give full cooperation to the Committee in the discharge of its duties/mandate. “The meeting also approved the composition of the following Committees: Edo State Governorship National Campaign Council. Consultation/Reconciliation Committees for Edo and Ondo States ahead of the forthcoming governorship elections,” he stated.