 Following the cancellation of the 2020 edition of Viva Technology, Sanofi will maintain its four AfricaTech Challenges by organizing an online pitch day on June 11, 2020. The objective is to continue Sanofi’s commitment to encourage innovation in Africa, improve access to healthcare and transform the health ecosystem throughout the continent. For this 3rd edition, Sanofi has received 268 applications (compared to 222 last year) from 34 countries. 11 finalists were selected, based on five criteria: project maturity, early results, relevance of the solution, market potential and business model, as well as the skills and expertise of the team. These are the four challenges and the 11 selected startups: Challenge #1: How to support patients with a digital health book in order to access information and make decision? Challenge #2: How to help healthcare systems leapfrog from manual to smart logistics solutions at point of care? Challenge #3: How to improve financing and impact of innovative health solutions in Africa? Challenge #4 - Sanofi Espoir Foundation: How to improve maternal and neonatal health in sub-Saharan Africa? At the 2020 AfricaTech live virtual pitch, these startups will compete in their respective challenge categories before an online audience and a jury made up of global professionals, investors and thought leaders in technology and healthcare. Folake Odediran, Sanofi’s General Manager, General Medicines, Nigeria & Ghana and Country Lead, Nigeria, commenting on the upcoming live pitch, said: « The AfricaTech initiative is in line with our purpose of empowering lives. We are so far impressed with the progress of the 2020 Challenge and are happy for all the finalists who have made it this far. We are even more excited that three of them emerged from our Nigeria-Ghana affiliate and we hope that the best techpreneurs win ». After Viva Technology 2020 was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the selected startups will now be invited to pitch their solutions at 2:00pm CET (Paris time) on June 11, 2020, during a special Sanofi Africatech day by video conference. The live virtual event will be hosted by Sanofi Africa zone and will comprise of four pitch sessions, each of 30 – 45 minutes duration. Attendance is open to external audiences through prior registration. You can register by visiting http://surl.sanofi.com/2y7 The four winning startups will be announced at the end of this event, and Sanofi will then evaluate longer-term partnership opportunities with them.