 ‘Mentoring Her’, an online social platform that virtually connects female mentors and mentees where they can develop relationships and help each other grow in areas relating to education, career, entrepreneurship and economic empowerment is set to launch in Nigeria. Speaking during a zoom pressing conference to announce the launch in Nigeria, Lola Adeyemi, founder, Mentoring Her explained that the vision of the initiative is to mentor, inspire and guide women to reach their full academic and career potential and live their best lives. Adeyemi disclosed that she started ‘Mentoring Her’ because she realised that a lot of women do not have mentors to help inspire and guide them through their career paths, adding that this platform will give them access to mentors that could guide them. She explained that Mentoring Her has been operating for one year in the United States but she decided to launch the platform in Nigeria to impact the lives of Nigerian women. She observed that Mentoring Her is totally different from other mentorship platforms because it targeted at women, with mentors between ages 13 and above and mentors between ages 21 and above. “This is a virtual platform specifically dedicated to women. It is a one-stop-shop where women meet other women that will impact their lives for the better. Not everyone that applies gets into the platform as we have to conduct background checks on applicants to avoid those who are not genuine,” Adeyemi explained. She said the platform helps connect likeminded females across different parts of the world; help them learn career, academic, entrepreneurial and empowerment skills; and helps them achieve their full lifetime potential and lead like a woman. Adeyemi noted that there is a global limitation of female to female mentorship as barely 54 percent of women have access to mentors and mentors help people avoid costly mistakes. She therefore called on organisations to help support the initiative as the applicants apply free of charge, adding that it is her own way of giving back to the society. Also speaking at the Zoom meeting Seyi Bamidele, the Country Program Coordinator, Mentoring Her explained steps of joining the platform to include creating a Mentor/Mentee profile, reviewing of profile, approval of application, Mentor-Mentee matching, performance of quiz and connecting and developing mentoring relationship. She said on the platform, there are currently almost 400 mentors and mentees and more women are still joining.