 There is no doubt the coronavirus pandemic has led to significant impacts on life as we knew it. Between January 2020, when the World Health Organization (WHO) declared COVID-19 as a global pandemic and today, every aspect of life has been transformed into a mixture of chaos, confusion, and uncertainty. Within months, nations have had to deal with an unprecedented number of mortalities ever recorded in recent times. A World Bank report projected a 2.1 percent decline in GDP growth for sub-Saharan Africa and a loss between US$37 billion and US$79 billion due to the pandemic. More alarming, according to the report, is that COVID-19 “has the potential to create a severe food security crisis in the region, with agricultural production contracting between 2.6 percent and 7 percent in the scenario with trade blockages.” Sub-Saharan Africa, especially Nigeria, should come out of this pandemic with two-fold lessons to face the realities post-COVID-19 era will bring. These are reevaluating dependence on fossil fuels and seeking alternative sources of revenue generation. COVID-19 crisis may wipe out demand for fossil fuel according to a report by the International Energy Agency (IEA), the world’s energy watchdog. The possibility of food scarcity has been forecast to be more dire than the direct impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. With an estimated 265 million people going hungry by the end of 2020, various governments need to focus on food production even as the race to manufacture  a vaccine intensifies. A country like Nigeria, despite huge agricultural potentials, can still not provide cheap and affordable food for her growing population. With the COVID-19 pandemic, a bleaker outlook for food security in Nigeria has been predicted. Since Nigeria is not food sufficient, needless of being an agricultural products exporter, the country will be severely impacted by the lack of access to importation. Apart from the adverse impact on production across Africa, the supply chain has been impacted negatively as a result of restrictions on international movements. An investment in agriculture at this stage is not only going to avert the possibility of famine in Africa, it is a gateway to revitalizing several dying economies. The agriculture industry is highly diversified, leading to an abundance of opportunities to build the economy and enhance the standard of living of millions of Africans. In several ways, the COVID-19 pandemic presents a great opportunity for African nations, especially Nigeria, to approach industrialization differently and explore its benefits through strategic investment in agriculture in a post COVID-19 era. After the pandemic nightmare is over, if the recommendations proffered in this article are adopted, Nigeria will have a golden opportunity to become truly independent and self-reliant. Nigeria must wean herself off the overdependence on crude oil and chart a new path to lay the foundation of economic reforms targeted at agriculture as the main catalyst, using innovation and local content development. Farming is a major aspect of agriculture, which includes crops, poultry, livestock and fisheries. However, there are other important aspects of agriculture that are often overlooked. A great example is the agro-allied industry that relies on agricultural products. The growing demand for processed or packaged food directly correlates with the availability of agricultural products. Besides manufacturing capabilities of agro-allied companies, supply chain, logistics, transportation, storage, marketing, crowdfarming, circular agriculture, biorefining (e.g waste-to-energy, waste-to-chemicals) are some very essential income-generating opportunities that come with agriculture. There is an abundance of literature and conversations about the importance of agriculture in Africa. However, there has not been a comprehensive approach required to drive investment opportunities in Africa, especially Nigeria. For instance, in response to the impact of COVID-19, the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, outlined how the government was going to support agriculture through the InfraCo PLC, a 15 trillion naira fund management infrastructure to drive investment in logistics and transportation of agricultural products. As laudable as this investment is, it addresses just one of the ways investment opportunities can build the Nigerian economy. The government alone cannot provide the requisite investment needed to make agriculture a profitable venture and an economic-transformational force. Also, individual traditional farm ownership will not yield the right outcome if the scope of and approach to investments are not overhauled. This is crucial especially noting that while agriculture is the biggest employer in Africa, it is mostly populated by small farmers and the poor. Such a traditional approach to agriculture is not sustainable if food scarcity is to be adequately addressed within the next five years. To address the challenges facing the growth of agriculture in Nigeria, as well as Africa, a comprehensive agriculture investment approach will include the following:     FUNSO RICHARD & ABIODUN JEGEDE Funso Richard is a US-based Business Risks Expert and Abiodun Jegede is a Postdoctoral Researcher at the University of Oxford, UK. They can be reached on jehopereze@gmail.com and jegedeabiodun@yahoo.com. 