 A former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Na’Abba, says consultations are ongoing among some political elites toward setting up of a new political movement to rescue Nigeria. READ ALSO: NCFront condemns Garba Shehu over statement on DSS invitation of Na’aba Na’Abba, who is a co-chairman of the newly formed National Consultative Front, in a televised interview described Nigeria as a failed state, saying the current administration seems to be incompetent and irresponsible. He listed unemployment, insecurity, and economic hardship as some of the areas where the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has failed, adding that Nigerians are now poorer and disillusioned with the state of affairs in the country. “We have had to watch in dismay, shock and disappointment our dear country slide into anarchy. The country is drifting, virtually no sector is working, the rulers seem irresponsible and incompetent,” Na’Abba said. “Unemployment is at unprecedented level, the loss of lives is at a dismal level with scores of Nigerians being killed on a daily basis. Our indebtedness has reached an alarming rate with poor state of social infrastructures. The feeling is about disillusion and the feeling among Nigerians is that the days are numbered,” he said. Speaking further, the former lawmaker said the current state of the country was unacceptable to Nigerians, stressing that it had necessitated the current move by political like-minds to come together to form a new political movement to recue the country from impending collapse and give succour to Nigerians. “Our political structure has not been able to rise up to the challenge; it is unacceptable. We would initiate a national political action where the citizen would get their basic needs and fulfil their potentials. “We as Nigerians of conscience have decided to take urgent action to challenge our unfortunate situation. We the National Consultative Front would commonly pursue the task of rescuing the country from collapse. This would be achieved through nationwide consultation and mobilisation,” he added.