 Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, has declared his administration’s commitment to ensure peace in the state despite the politically charged atmosphere. He also promised to increase budgetary allocation to rural electrification, youths and women empowerment, and agriculture if elected for a second tenure in office. Obaseki, who is the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the September 19 governorship election in the state, made the promise on Monday at the palace of Egiegbai of Ekperi Kingdom, Deke Kanoba, at Ugbekpi-Ekperi. The governor, who said he was there to seek the royal father’s prayers and support ahead of the election, vowed not to turn his back on the plights of rural dwellers in the state. He said he would do everything possible to ensure that the locality gets electricity when elected for a second term. He also assured the people of the community of his administration’s continued commitment to a peaceful coexistence among his party and other political parties in the state. “I will continue to do everything within my powers, even in the face of provocation from opposition parties, to ensure that our dear state is peaceful. No business can thrive in a state where there is no peace. As a government, we are determined to explore every means to grow our economy,” Obaseki said. “I understand that there is also no place or business that can boom without constant electricity. We need electricity for some of our products such as fish which is a major means of income for the people of Ekperi. “It’s our interest to construct roads and other infrastructural development for our people. We have had some challenges with management of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC). But as government, I want to assure you that we are very concerned about the constant electricity supply to our people,” he said. He noted that all institutions in the state must be insulated from politics. On his part, Dan Orbih, the state chairman of PDP Campaign Council, urged the people to vote the candidate of the party for continuity and sustainable development. In his remarks, the Egiegbai II of Ekperi Kingdom, Deke Kanoba, said his palace does not play partisan politics and that his interests are in good governance. While calling for peaceful rallies among political parties that will be well monitored by security agencies, he appealed to the governor to look into the activities of the BEDC in his area. He also called for the construction of Ogbago and Osomhegbe communities roads.