  The Nigerian music industry received a boost with the recent unveiling of MOD, a multifaceted entertainment outfit that is poised to inject revolutionary management into showbusiness in the country. Davies Den, CEO, Den Management, which handles talent and business part of MOD, explains that the outfit has three parts: MOD Studios, MOD Records and MOD film production outfit.” “We have platforms where we encourage new and emerging artists. We encourage talents. We do partnership with brands. We are fully ready for the industry,” he discloses. Speaking on what makes the new outfit different, he said MOD is a full entertainment outfit with a five-in-one studio that can be utilised as dance studio, visual studio, recording studio and for live rehearsal and mini comedy event. The studio is equipped with top class equipment, including cameras, lighting and sound equipment with cutting-edge technology, according to Den. “We have a top-notch digital studio and we have our work ethics intact. We deliver what we promise. We are here to change the game and change the narrative,” Den said about the studio’s ample recreational space and VIP section Meanwhile, MOD is has shown that it is on a face pace to seize the industry as it hit the ground running with the signing of J100 as the first official artiste under its record label. The emerging artiste, born and bred in Lagos, is acclaimed for his versatility in multiple genres including rock and pop, but prefers to describe his style as Afrosticks. J100 has been active in the music scene for a number of years. His album is reportedly in the works and MOD is working towards an imminent release. “J100 is our first official artiste. He is an all-in-one talent.  His songs would be released soon. We are presently gathering materials,” affirms Khlo, the A&R for MOD, who expressed hopes that the album would be a hit. The new music company’s marketing executive, Arthur Paul reiterated the outfit’s resolve to make its entry into the music industry count by raising standards and boosting quality. “The world at large should expect the best from MOD. We have something different to offer. We are and we are prepared,” Paul said.