 The depletion of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and key supporters of the Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi camp in Rivers State has taken a major turn following the eventual decamping to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) of Chidi Lloyd, the man who broke the head of another lawmaker in 2013 to save the then governor. Lloyd was a key Amaechi supporter in the wars that threatened to lead to the then governor’s impeachment where five lawmakers with huge external backing was about to topple the leadership of the Rivers State House of Assembly and impeach the then governor. The fight went against Amaechi camp earlier in the day but the Amaechi/Lloyd camp regrouped later in the day, seized the mace and during a fracas, hit the head of a lawmaker, Michael Chinda. Lloyd stood trial for the matter when Nyesom Wike became governor until beginning of second term in 2019 when Wike offered olive branch to those he said he offended and demanded same from them. The governor began by withdrawing the case against Lloyd. Lloyd, then the leader of the House, has remained silent without attacking Governor Wike any further. Last week, a statement emerged, saying he had decamped and was no more ready to hang on in a party that did not solve hunger problems of followers. The statement startled the Rivers political environment, but a rebuttal immediately came purportedly from Lloyd against the claim of decamping and use of bad words for Amaechi who is regarded as the APC leader in the south-south. Some social media persons followed this by releasing photos where Lloyd was bowing to Sergeant Awuse, a PDP chieftain, in his local council area,. Now, Monday, August 24, 2020, the government House issued a statement saying Lloyd has not only decamped but has just paid a visit to Governor Wike with others. The statement said Wike harped on politics of forgiveness as the only way Rivers State would move forward. The statement signed by the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Msirim, said Wike has declared that his success in politics and governance is because he bears no grudge against anybody. The statement said Governor Wike spoke when the people of Akpabu and Itu communities, led by their traditional and political leaders, paid him a courtesy visit at Government House, Port Harcourt. Wike was quoted to have said that during his second term inauguration, he asked for forgiveness from those he offended and also promised to forgive those that hurt him. Today, he said, Lloyd has publicly expressed regret of his role in the 2013 crisis at the State House of Assembly and apologised. Wike, who said Chinda has forgiven Lloyd, also said: “I love to attract people to our party because I am not a greedy politician. I believe that the more the merrier. I will do what is in the best interest of the people and the party. Politics of progress does not undermine the importance of friendship. I believe that we must forget yesterday, put ourselves together for a better tomorrow.”
Wike announced some favours to the community, including upgrade of their traditional stool to second class and roads. The statement quoted thus: “Former chieftain of the APC, Chidi Lloyd, expressed regret over his role in the crisis at the State House of Assembly on the 9th of July 2013 and apologised to the people of the state and Hon. Michael Chinda. “Lloyd said he has learnt how to be benevolent in politics among other things from Governor Wike. He declared that henceforth, he and members of his community would work for the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).” Rivers State Chairman of the PDP, Desmond Akawor, who was said to have received Lloyd into the PDP, noted that the ex-APC chieftain is an asset.