 Chairman of Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council, Dan Orbih, has said the forthcoming gubernatorial election in Edo State will put an end to godfatherism in the state, urging voters to come out en masse to vote for the PDP to ensure the reelection of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Orbih, who spoke during the reelection campaign rally of Obaseki in Usen Ward 7, Ovia South West Local Government Area, said the reelection of Governor Obaseki will ensure the consolidation of successes recorded by the administration in the first term. Speaking in same vein, Governor Obaseki assured that government would provide adequate security for voters across the state. The Edo State PDP campaign chair said the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) and its leadership, in desperation, have resorted to importing thugs and arming youths with guns to cause violence in order to subvert the will of Edo people. “It is clear that this election can’t be won by the number of thugs the APC has been importing into the state for the September 19 gubernatorial election. It is only the people that will decide who leads them,” Orbih said. Decrying the increasing attacks on PDP supporters, Orbih alleged that the APC recently attacked a council chairman in Owan and another party leader in Agbede. “The APC is not ready for this election; all they want to do is to instill fear in people so that they will not come out on election day to cast their votes. They also intend to snatch ballot boxes and disrupt voting in all the areas where their candidate is not popular,” Orbih said. “No amount of violence and intimidation will scare the Edo electorate and make them stay away from their various polling units on election day. Edo is a peaceful state and the sacked APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, should not destroy the peace enjoyed by Edo people. He should accept what God has ordained for the state because he has no power to change it,” he said. On his part, Governor Obaseki reassured the people of security ahead of the poll, promising to protect them from attacks by “those that call themselves lions and tigers”. “Lions and Tigers are supposed to be kept in the zoo and not allowed to live amongst the people,” he said.