 Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Thursday berated the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for arm-twisting the judiciary to bow to its request to transfer five cases against it from the Benin Division of the Federal High Court to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Chris Nehikhare, the Publicity Secretary of the party stated this at a press briefing in Benin City. Nehikhare, who said the cases have been running in the Benin Division of the Federal High Court said the action was an attempt by the APC to arm-twist the judiciary and force judges to bow to their tune. APC had in a petition marked FHC/B/C569/2020 requested the transfer of its ongoing cases at the Benin Division of the Federal High Court to Abuja. In the petition, they alleged bias of the judges and that they would not get justice. The PDP publicity secretary opined that it was dangerous practice for litigants to select the particular courts that they want their cases to be heard, and which they believe will give them favorable judgments. “This portends great danger to our democracy and society, and an attempt by the APC to arm-twist the judiciary and force judges to bow to their tune. “On August 24, the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Abuja, Justice John T. Tsoho granted the application filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the transfer of five cases bordering on the September 19, governorship election in Edo State, which have been running in the Benin Division of the Federal High Court. “The transfer of the cases followed a request by the APC, in which the party alleged that Justices in the entire Benin Division of the Federal High Court have shown bias against the APC and that it would not get justice from these Judges. “After a careful appraisal of this development, we have come to the conclusion that the APC is out on a mission to pick and choose which court will hear its cases. “With this development, APC is telling Nigerians that the party has some Courts that will give them favourable judgments, and another set of Courts that show bias against them,”he said.