 As the Dangote Fertiliser with a capacity of three million metric tons per annum is set to come on stream, the Federal Government has said it is critical to its food security quest and agricultural agenda for the country. Muhammad Sabo Nanono, Minister of Agriculture who stated this during a facility tour of the Dangote Fertiliser plant in Lagos at the weekend, called on the company to support the country’s agricultural mechanisation scheme as well as extension services for smallholder farmers. Nanono stated that the Dangote support is needed for the success of the mechanisation scheme, which is expected to cover 632 local government areas across the country. Nanono said Aliko Dangote’s investment in fertiliser production will contribute to improved farmers yield per hectare and boost agricultural productivity, which are critical to the attainment of food sufficiency. He commended Dangote for keying into the Federal Government’s Presidential Initiative on fertiliser aimed at bringing down the cost of fertilisers across the country. “The capacity of Dangote Fertiliser is enough to change the way fertiliser is being used in this country. We are going to complement his efforts and support him in this regard. The challenge of the supply of fertiliser is going to be solved by the Dangote Fertiliser plant. I can now go home and sleep,” he said in a statement. He notes that the Nigerian government wants to make sure that Nigerians have enough food to eat, which according to him can be attained with sufficient fertilizer supply in the country. “All we have been trying to do as far as agricultural development is concerned has been captured by the Dangote Fertiliser plant,” he said. “Nigeria has the potential for agriculture. Dangote Fertiliser is going to help the government and the farmers,” he further said. Nanono stated that the smallholder farmers are going to benefit from Dangote Fertiliser. “There is a need for us to support smallholder farmers who have been helping the government concerning food security. Once the smallholder farmers get all the necessary support, there will be an agricultural revolution in this country,” he said. Giving an update on the fertiliser project, Devakumar Edwin, group executive director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, Dangote Industries Limited, said that Dangote Fertiliser has a well-equipped fertiliser soil testing laboratory to ensure the efficiency of the product for farmers. “The laboratory will enable us analyse and identify a particular soil deficiency. Applying the right fertiliser to the soil will enable it to yield maximum result,” he said. “The goal of our soil testing is to provide an accurate assessment of the soil’s fertility to make fertiliser recommendations. A proper soil test will help ensure the application of enough fertiliser to meet the requirements of the crop while taking advantage of the nutrients already present in the soil,” he explains. Edwin said that Dangote Fertiliser will make Nigeria become self-sufficient in fertiliser production and have the capacity to export the products to other African countries. “Right now, farmers are forced to utilise whatever fertiliser that is available as they have no choice, but we need to know that the fertiliser that will work in one state may not be suitable in another state, as they may not have the same soil type and composition,” he said. “The same fertiliser you use for sorghum may not be the fertiliser you will use for sugar cane,” he added.