 President Muhamamdu Buhari has announced the appointment of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) as a member of a tripartite meetings of the executive and legislature of the leadership of the All Progressive Congress (APC). This is contained in a statement issued by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media to the minister which was made available to newsmen in Abuja on Monday. According to the statement, Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbanjo is to serve as the chairman of the 11-member consultative committee. Other Members of the committee included, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF); Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff; Professor Ibrahim Agboola Gambari, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan. Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, and Senate Majority Leader, Senator Yahya Abdullahi are also members of the committee. Also appointed as members of the committee are the Speaker of the House of the Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Deputy Speaker; Ahmed Idris Wase, House Majority Leader, Ogor Okuweh’ the chairman of the All Progressive Congress caretaker committee, the governor of Yobe State; Mai Mala Buni , as well as the secretary of the APC caretaker committee; Akpan Udoedehe. Inaugurating the Committee on Monday at the Council Chambers, State House Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari charged members of the Committee to work towards improving the communication and coordination as well as to ensure regular consultation between the party members and the government for the development of the nation. The President, who expressed great faith and confidence in the newly inaugurated consultative committee urged members to work for unity and harmony of the party. He asked them to ensure that party faithful and various organs of the government work patriotically as one entity in order to move the country forward. In his address at the occasion, Boss Mustapha said that synergy among organs of the government engenders development of the nation. He said that it was out the desire and the commitment of the government to strengthen the relationship among organs of the government that the administration implores executive officials to see organs of the government as partners.