 In line with efforts at ensuring appropriate coordination of security arrangements towards a hitch-free election in the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State slated to hold on September 19, 2020, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has deployed Adeleye Olusola Oyabade, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police in charge of Research and Planning, to supervise the general security arrangement for the election in the state. According to a statement issued on Friday by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, the DIG will be assisted by an Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Karma Hosea Hassan, AIG in charge of Federal Operations at the Force Headquarters Abuja, and eight Commissioners of Police (CPs).
“The DIG, with the assistance of the AIG, will superintend over the entire security architecture and ensure effective monitoring of the election and due enforcement of all electoral laws in the State,” the statement said. Other senior police officers (Commissioners of Police) similarly involved in election monitoring and evaluation include Garba Baba Umar, Habu Sani and Buba Sanusi. Akeera M. Yonous will coordinate the operations of the Police Mobile Force (PMF) and other special strike forces, the statement added. READ ALSO: Why Nigerian insurers will see minimal Covid-19 claims compared to total global loss The other four Commissioners of Police will supervise security arrangement in the three senatorial districts of the state. They are Omololu S. Bishi and Abutu Yaro for Edo North senatorial district, Philip Aliyu Ogbadu for Edo Central Senatorial District, and Olokade T. Olawale for Edo South Senatorial District. Meanwhile, the IGP has barred security aides attached to VIPs and political appointees from accompanying their principals on the election day. The IGP warned that anyone who flouts this order will be severely reprimanded. The IGP also charged officers and men on election duties in the state to ensure they work in line with standard best practices and adhere strictly with the approved Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for the elections. He called on members of the public, particularly politicians, governorship candidates and other relevant stakeholders in the state to cooperate with the police and other security agencies in the patriotic task of guaranteeing a hitch-free gubernatorial poll.