 Big Cabal Media, the parent company of TechCabal said it has secured undisclosed funding from Platform Capital, a growth market investor. According to a statement from the company, the funding will help the company drive accelerated audience growth and reach. As part of the investment, Akintoye Akindele, Chairman of Platform Capital will join the board of Big Cabal Media. Other members of the board include Biola Alabi, GreenTec Capital CIO; Tomi Davies, President of African Business Angels Network (ABAN); and Bankole Oluwafemi, founder of Big Cabal. “Big Cabal has established its ability to build and sustain strong media brands and to deliver high-impact innovative content and products,” Tomiwa Aladekomo, CEO of Big Cabal said. “With Platform Capital as a partner, we intend to drive accelerated audience growth and reach, while deepening our investments in technology and product development.” Big Cabal currently publishes TechCabal and Zikoko, while working with brands through its Cabal Creative Studio. Read more Why I resigned from Cars45 to build Autochek – Etop Ikpe TechCabal provides insight into startups, innovation, and technology in Africa through its reporting, data, and events. It serves a global audience of business professionals, investors, entrepreneurs, and those curious about the impact of technology in Africa’s evolution. Zikoko creates high-engagement content around youth culture in and around Nigeria and West Africa. The company also works with local and international brands including Coca-Cola, Google, DSTV, Access Bank, Flutterwave, MainOne, GIGM, Nestle, and ARM under its Cabal Creative Studio, providing strategic communications, content creation, and brand design services. “As the global demand for African news & African content continues to grow and evolve, we believe that Big Cabal Media is uniquely positioned at the intersection of media and technology due to its strong brand, youth focus, and global reach to be an integral part of the “Africa Rising” story. We look forward to working with Tomiwa and the team at BCM to support their growth across Africa and into new verticals.” Paul Okunaiya, CIO at Platform Capital said. BCM’s content reaches over 3 million people every month and is influential across a significant swath of technology, investor, and youth audiences. It has been responsible for ground-breaking projects like Zikoko’s Jollof Road, a 14-country, 80-day road trip, and documentary series; and Tech Women Lagos, an exhibition, website, and content series showcasing women in the technology industry. BCM is positioned to grow its digital offerings and global audience over the next 12 months.