 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has protested the clampdown on its governors by security agents in Benin City, Edo State capital, ahead of Saturday’s governorship election. The national leadership of PDP, in a press conference addressed by the party’s national chairman, Uche Secondus, alerted the nation and the international community of the security siege on PDP governors in their lodging in Benin City. The party expressed shock that security agents were detailed to surround the lodging of its governors to harass and intimidate them, whereas APC governors, including the governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje, his Imo State counterpart, Hope Uzodimma, as well as Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, are left free in the comfort of the residence of the sacked national chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, in GRA, Benin City. According to a statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, the party considered the siege as provocative and completely unacceptable as there cannot be two sets of laws for the citizens of the nation. “Inasmuch as the APC governors are given the liberty to stay in Benin City, our governors must not be harassed or stampeded to leave the state,” Ologbondiyan said. “At any rate, we are confident that our governors will not allow themselves to be stampeded. “The PDP calls on all stakeholders in the Edo governorship election, particularly the security agencies, to work towards a peaceful, credible, transparent, free and fair election on Saturday,” he said. This came as Akawor Desmond, PDP chairman in Rivers State, said over 300 policemen have laid siege to the hotel where Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, chairman of PDP Campaign Council for Edo governorship election, is staying. Akawor in a statement said, “The attention of the entire people of Rivers State has been drawn to the siege laid at the hotel where the Governor of Rivers State Nyesom Wike is lodging while on official assignment in Benin, Edo State.” Akawor recalled that Governor Wike was appointed chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council for the Edo Governorship Election, the same position Governor Ganduje of Kano State occupies for his party the APC. “Governor Ganduje and Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State are all in Benin, Edo State carrying out their assignment for the APC without any molestation or intimidation. “And in a breach of the pledge they made, security agencies have decided to harass and intimidate Governor Wike who has not done any wrong. “May I on behalf of entire Rivers people warn that we shall hold the IGP (Inspector General of Police) responsible for anything that happens to our governor,” he said.