 Gospel music artist, Osinachi Joseph popularly known as Sinach will on Thursday unveil the first track of what promises to be a star-studded worship album set to be released in November. The track premiere is part of the event scheduled for the music minister’s 30th anniversary in gospel music. The anniversary and album launch had been scheduled for earlier in the year but the COVID-19 pandemic happened and the plans were put on hold. The concert would arguably set the record for the first time the multiple award-winning and Dove-award nominee would be ministering on the same stage with some of the notable gospel artists from different countries in the world. Haven toured over 50 countries across six continents, Sinach says the soon to be featured artists are some of the best in the gospel music scene in the world. Many of whom have also inspired her growth as a music minister. Nevertheless, for Sinach, it is important that every music artist just starting out should first establish their personality in their song before going out for collaborations. The track titled ‘Peace in the Storm’ is inspired by the high level of anxiety in the world today. “Peace in the Storm is a song for the now. These days you wake up in the morning not knowing what you would hear because there is so much unrest in the countries. Look at the places we thought were the most peaceful and secure, everything is turning upside down. And the people in it don’t even know what is happening,” Sinach said in an interview. According to her, the song is reminiscent of Jesus’s response to a stormy situation in the Bible book of Mark 4:37. The disciple of Jesus had panicked at the sight of a storm, while Jesus was sleeping on the lower deck of the boat. When he was finally woken up, he stretched his hands to the sea and said “Peace be still,’ and there was a great calm. “In this period (of the pandemic) Jesus is in the boat, so be calm,” Sinach said. “It is a message, a calming our heart song, saying don’t be afraid.” The song will go live on all Sinach platforms and every other media platform around the world on September 3rd.