 Former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar has said that the victory of Governor Godwin Obaseki in Saturday’s Governorship election in Edo state, was a clear signal that godfatherism has come to an end in Nigeria. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Sunday announced Godwin Obaseki of the PDP as the winner of the election having defeated his closest rival Osagie Ize Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Atiku in a statement he issued on Sunday said “there is a new dawn in Edo State, and the hard won victory of Governor Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki is not just a victory, but a Declaration of Independence from the anti democratic forces of godfatherism and militarism. No victory could be sweeter than this, and I heartily congratulate the Governor, and the good people of Edo state for their resilience in the face of the forces arrayed against them.” He said further that ” there is a new wind of democratic change now blowing all over Nigeria. The forces of despotism, nepotism and Interlopers cannot successfully withstand this force. Nigeria shall soon be totally free from these forces from Laura Namoda to Lagos. The only power that can stand in Nigeria is people power not the power of godfathers or despots.” Atiku added that Edo has a rich history as the centre of Black civilisation, and to this, she is adding a new history as the bastion of Nigerian democracy. He noted that this double whammy of ancient and modern glories is a testament to a people who have for centuries set the pace as a beacon of light on the African continent. The Wazirin Adamawa congratulated the PDP, who stood shoulder to shoulder, with the people of Edo and their Government, in good times and bad. “We, in the PDP, have shown that we are not fair weather friends to the good people of Edo. In good times, we will walk beside you. In bad times, we will be your true ‘comrade’. We will never be a turncoat. We will never abandon the principles we once espoused, so we can dine with our nemesis. Democracy has no nemesis. And this, the PDP has again proved,” he said. Atiku expressed optimism about the continuation of four more years of tangible development, and people centred leadership from Governor Obaseki. He also thanked the Oba of Benin, Omo N’oba N’Edo Uku Akpolopkolo, Ewuare II, for the fatherly role he played as a neutral catalyst for peace. Atiku said: “That this election was, by and large, free from violence, is a testament of the long and effective shadow he casts over his domain. From personal experience, I know Governor Obaseki to be a magnanimous man, and I urge Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu to accept the right hand of fellowship that is likely to be extended to him. “The leprous hand he(Ize Iyamu) is now holding, can only lead to a destination of barrenness. He is amongst strange bedfellows, and I remind him that no matter how far one has gone on a wrong road, it is never too late to turn back and head in the right direction. The PDP is the right direction.” Atiku also admonished the people of Ondo state who will be going the polls on October 10 for the governoship election, to fight for their freedom from the oppressive grasp of godfathers and external forces that seek to dominate their will, and eviscerate their treasury. He tasked the people of Ondo to emulate Edo people, who have broken free from the shackles of godfatherism.