 Ahead of the September 19 and October 10 governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States, respectively, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to demonstrate good leadership by conducting free, fair, credible and violence-free elections. The national chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, stated this on Saturday in Akure during the flag-off campaign rally for Ondo governorship election held at the MKO Democracy Park. According to Secondus, Nigeria lags in conducting a free and fair election which has greatly affected the country in improving its democracy system. He urged eligible voters in Ondo State to vote for the party’s flagbearer, Eyitayo Jedege, saying that PDP remained the only means that would lift the suffering ravaging the state since the inception of APC administration in the state. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, who also doubles as the chairman of the National PDP Campaign Council for Ondo State election, said people should not be scared to vote the party as Oyo people did in 2019. “Last week, they came and told you to vote for them because of 2023, this election is not about presidency for Yoruba, it is all about good delivery of good governance. “Don’t be scared, in 2019 in Oyo State, we were not at the Federal Government level, not even at the local level, but we have God and human being and we won, it can happen here. “This election is special, use it to deliver this state, this coming election is servitude against freedom, we want freedom for the entire Southwest. Come out, cast your vote and stay with your vote, your vote will not only count, it will be counted and bail Ondo State,” Makinde said. In his own statement, the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, called on the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu to proper investigate the fire incident that occurred on Thursday night at the Akure INEC head office and brings those culpable to face the wrath of the law. While speaking, the party’s flagbearer, Eyitayo Jedege, promised an all-inclusive government and an overhaul transformation of the state through economic-driven, quality health care delivery and infrastructure development. According to Jegede, his administration will provide good education by reducing the tuition fee in all the tertiary institutions and prioritise workers’ welfare. Other dignitaries that attended the event include Biodun Olujimi, a senator, from Ekiti South, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, former Osun State governor, Kola Ologbondiyan, national publicity secretary of PDP, among others.