 Ondo state deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi and candidate of Zenith Labour Party in the coming governorship election, has challenged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s son, Babajide Akeredolu, to make good his threat to sue him over Babajide’s alleged involvement in the N4.3 billion state fund scam reportedly diverted. Ajayi, who said this on Thursday via a press statement made available to BusinessDay in Akure, state capital through his Media Adviser, Allen Sowore, added that “the Office of the Deputy Governor hereby challenged Babajide Akeredolu to immediately carry out his threat.” Recall that the money was uncovered in May, 2020 during an audit of the state accounts and was recovered from some government officials who served the state in the administration of former Governor Segun Mimiko. Ajayi, confirmed that the money was recovered but Governor Akeredolu could not account for it and the deputy governor now challenges the governor’s son who seems to know much about the recovered fund, saying: “It is in the interest of Ondo state that the threat becomes a reality because it will provide everyone an ample opportunity to resolve once and for all, the whereabouts of the recovered, but now missing N4.3 billion Ondo state money. “Not only that, the whereabouts of the 40% of the 13% oil derivation accruing to the Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC) since 2017 would have to be accounted for.” Ajayi, also challenged his boss, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to make it known to the public, the account details of the money raised for COVID-19 pandemic for the past six months till date for the interest of good people of the state. Recall also that on 30th March, 2020, the United Bank for Africa Plc (UBA), through the UBA Foundation donated the sum of N28,500,000 Million to the Ondo State Government among others donors as part of their contributions to the fight against the COVID-19. The Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, therefore, also used the opportunity to call for the forensic audit of the Ondo State Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and REMITA payment system and the unveiling of the consultants collecting the 10% of generated revenues; a percentage which he said, is just too high for the services being rendered. BusinessDay reports that Babajide had on his Twitter handle threatened to sue the Deputy Governor over the alleged claim that he received a commission of N430 million from the N4.3 billion discovered in a secret account of the State Government stashed for the past ten years. He said: “I am actually glad there is finally a face behind this accusation and video evidence of you (deputy governor) mentioning my name. I can’t wait for you (deputy governor) to lose your immunity sir. I will sue the living day light (sic) out of you sir. It will be glorious.” This threat prompted the deputy governor to reply Babajide, telling him not to delay in dragging him to court over the alleged N4.3 billion scam, maintaining his position on the allegation. Deputy governor’s statement on the allegation reads further “The Deputy Governor stands by his statement that the payment of N430 million as ten percent of the recovered N4.3 billion as Consultancy Fees to the firm of Babajide, the Governor’s son for doing nothing is unjustifiable. “We therefore urge Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN, to allow the State House of Assembly complete the probe of the N4.3 billion kept for ten years in a Zenith Bank account. Also, the government officials responsible for this mendacity should be revealed and punished accordingly.”