 Kano House of Assembly has amended the legislative instrument it passed which empowered Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje to create additional four new emirate councils and made the chairmanship of the state traditional council a rotation among the five emirs. It was the dispute that ensued out of the creation of the new emirates that resulted in the removal of the former emir, Muhammed Sanusi, and the appointment of a new on, Aminu Ado Bayero. Briefing journalists on Wednesday on the amendment to the legislation, Speaker of the House, Abdulazeez Gafasa disclosed that the amendment to the legislation was adopted at plenary held on Tuesday in Kano, and with the development the emir Aminu Ado Bayero has now become the permanent chairman of the state traditional council. It will be recalled that the house had last year, passed the law which empowered the state governor to create four new emirates: Gaya; Karaye, Rano, Bichi, bringing the number of traditional rulers in the state to five. Also commenting on the amendment to the legislation, the majority leader of the House, Kabiru Dashi, stated that the amendment made provisions for the Emir of Kano, to serve as the Chairman of the Council of Chiefs, thus, putting the issue of rotation to an end. “In the new law, the number of kingmakers have also increased from four to five members, to allow for the free and fair election of a new emir whenever there is a vacancy. “We have four kingmakers in each of the Emirate Councils, in the case of death or removal, we are trying to avoid a situation where two will support and two will reject. “By increasing the number to five; it must be free and fair while electing an emir. And also, the new law will provide a three-day deadline for the election of a new emir,” he said. Dashi added that the amended law had also changed the title of the Council of Chiefs, to be referred to as the Council of Emirs. The lawmakers after considering the amendment at the Committee of the Whole, adopted the amendment to the bill. The House also approved the appointment of Garba Shehu, as the Executive Secretary, Kano State Education Development Support Fund. 