 Jennifer Obayuwana, executive director of Polo Luxury Group, official retail partners of Swarovski Nigeria, said Swarovski has experienced remarkable growth in its one year of establishment in Nigeria. She said this in a statement to BusinessDay, which also reveals that the jewelry brand is celebrating its one-year anniversary since it began operations in Nigeria. The world-renowned Austrian producer of precision-cut crystals, genuine gemstones, and created stones, is building a lasting legacy in Nigeria, having launched in September 2019, in the commercial hub of Ikeja with its first mono-brand store in Nigeria which embodies the brand’s commitment to artistry and innovation. The crystal jeweler is globally recognised as a brand that is passionate about design and culture, and these core philosophies have been adopted at their Nigerian store. “We are thankful to all our friends and family who have made this a reality. It has been an exciting journey partnering with some of the most sought-after talents who have shared their sparkle stories that have helped to encourage other women to shine. “We look forward to many more years of offering the world’s finest crystal jewelry in Nigeria,” Obayuwana said. In honour of the anniversary, Swarovski Nigeria launched a series of campaigns, using a refined talent pool of the most prevalent IT Girls and influencers to spark experiences that excite and entertain. The company also took great strides in inspiring an online community of existing and potential customers, using the hashtag #ShareYourSparkle and success stories from the past 12 months, to unify their audience. The brand further adopted the concept of “paying it forward” to further amplify its brand values, inviting influential talents to share gifts from the store with women who have inspired them over the past year. BusinessDay learnt that ‘paying it forward’ at Swarovski Nigeria is the concept of sharing a gift, and in turn, inviting and inspiring the receiver of the gift to then gift someone else