 The National Board for Technical Incubation (NBTI) says that it would continue to focus on the promotion and development of local products saleable in both national and international markets, such that would aid Nigeria’s economic growth. The board which is known for creating and nurturing of budding value-added and technology-based enterprise is ever ready to translate any meaningful idea and articulate business plans aimed at improving the lives of the people. This was why the board is partnering tertiary institutions, the private sector, and states government towards articulating business plans and converting ideas to products for commercial purposes within and outside the country. The Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of the board, Mohammed Jibrin made this known when he paid a visit to Nasarawa State Commissioner of Education, Science, and Technology, Fatu Sabo, at the ministry’s headquarters in Lafia. He expressed gratitude to the Nasarawa State Government for supporting the board and hoped that the partnership would be sustained. According to him, the board has concluded plans to ensure the Lafia incubation centre was put to use to make it one of the most viable in the country. The DG/CEO further explained their mandate was to coordinate support from the government and the private sector towards promoting local products for national growth. “The board is supporting individuals and groups to convert their ideas into products thereby developing the national economy. “What we are witnessing in Nigeria today is not encouraging, that is why the government came with the initiative of incubating technologists for commercialisation within and outside the country. “We are collaborating with the academia and research institutions towards converting their research ideas into products. “We have a lot of researches from these institutions in technology, business among other areas that were being kept in the shelf,” the DG added. He, therefore, assured the Commissioner that very soon the board would provide all the necessary manpower and equipment to ensure the Lafia incubation centre begin manufacturing of different products. Responding, the State Commissioner of Education, Science, and Technology, Fatu Sabo appealed to the Federal Government to ensure the full take-off of Lafia incubation centre, so as to enable the government to promote and develop local products in the State. “The call became imperative given the importance of the centre to promoting and developing local products to the limelight.” Sabo observed that the State has so many local products ranging from local soap, cassava flour, salt, mineral resources among others, as most locals process these products using traditional methods. The Commissioner noted that the incubation centre, if fully operational would provide the local producers the platform, and connect them with National and International markets that would enable them to excel. She further, the administration of Governor Sule has constructed a road leading to the centre and provides facilities and other logistics for the smooth running of the centre.