 The Edo State governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 19 governorship election in the state, Godwin Obaseki, has taken a swipe at the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Osagie Ize-Iyamu, saying the opposition candidate’s manifesto, Simple Agenda, cannot solve complicated problems facing the state, such as the uncertainties thrown up by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and low revenue caused by sliding crude oil prices. The governor made the submission during a debate organised by the British Broadcasting Service (BBC) via Zoom for candidates of three political parties ahead of the poll. Obaseki said that the Simple Agenda was not only defective as it was out of synch with prevailing realities, but that the supposed proponent, Ize-Iyamu, lacked cognate experience to understand the intricacies of economics and public policy, as he had no real work experience and has only played politics all his working life. “When someone is proposing a simple agenda for a complicated problem, he would not know where to start from. You do not diversify an economy in two months. This is what you get when you do not have proper working experience. He hasn’t done much in life except politics,” the governor said. Obaseki said a lot of work goes into diversifying an economy, which includes creating the right environment for businesses to thrive; providing electricity to power industries and providing support to drive agricultural development. The governor had earlier excused himself to attend to an important matter of state before joining back to continue the debate. The deputy governor and Obaseki’s running mate, Philip Shaibu, was initially pencilled down to continue the debate but the APC candidate protested. On the governor’s return, he listed how the government prioritised primary healthcare in the state to ensure healthcare services are easily accessed by those in rural areas, noting that the strategy would ensure that the state meets the basic health need of the citizenry.