 The government of Ebonyi State on Tuesday held a Business summit in Abakaliki and sign a business agreement with Silverbird Group and a consortium of businessmen from Computer Village Lagos, Nigeria. The summit which took place at the Ecumenical Center Abakaliki the state capital also features the singing of another agreement with another business concern known as Everyday Group. Correspondent reports that the agreement with the Silverbird group will enable the station to start a branch of its cinema in the state according to the state government. President-General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Nnia Nwodo at the event, called on Ndigbo to invest in the zone for more development. Nwodo said the need for the people of the zone to go into Agriculture which he described as the best to go. “Our people should come back home and invest. We should go into Agriculture and digital technology where the world is going to. We must turn our Igboland into Catalonia of Spain, into what Bayern is to Germany. If you go to Spain, you can’t go into business without Catalonia, if you go to Germany, you can’t do any business without Bayern. “Onitsha and Aba markets in Anambra and Abia are almost coming to that. Here in Ebonyi, the Governor is almost turning the state into Bayern of Igboland because of the phenomenal growth the state has recorded under the present administration in the state”, Nwodo stated. In his remarks, the State Governor Engr David Umahi said he has created an enabling environment for businesses to thrive and investors to invest in the state. He disclosed that 24 Chinese have indicated interest to invest in the state and have obtained shops at the newly constructed shopping mall in the state which he said has the capacity to employ over 25,000 unemployed youths. “In Ebonyi, we have a law and this law has tied our government up and down, that you will not be afraid of any investment. No government policy can affect any investment in Ebonyi state. “Even the mall, even though we are renting the mall per month but the agreement we are signing for anybody taking the mall is for 99 years. “Every five years, we look at the rate to review it. I will not be afraid to say that for Ebonyians who are born here, I will give them concession”, he stated. The Computer Village consortium led by Prince Tony Nweze, President Computer Village Technology Merchants of Nigeria in his speech described Ebonyi as the best in infrastructural development. “What is happening in Ebonyi State now is like what is happening in China. In China, the Infrastructure you see today, in a week’s time you see a neater one capable of making one miss his way”. Guy Murray Bruce CEO Silverbird group, described the Ebonyi shopping mall as the best in Africa and commended the governor for embarking on human-oriented projects.