 RyteGate Technologies, a Lagos based information Technology Company has announced the introduction of Stride ERP, a platform designed to accommodate the changes in the modus operandi of various businesses in Nigeria. For most companies, surviving in a coronavirus world involves not just the treatment of data as a corporate asset but also as leverage for competitive advantage through the application of digital technology like Stride ERP which helps firm gain insights and foresight that enable the optimization of business decisions as well as in the modelling and automation of business processes. “With Stride ERP, business owners can as well access their information anytime of the day and from any part of the world on a secured web-based platform,” Oby Amaka, director corporate development at RyteGate Technologies said. Stride ERP, according to Amaka, is a dynamic solution, designed to be adaptable to different business models, allowing entrepreneurs to apply it to a wide variety of industries and processes. “It’s a user-friendly interface and its role-based features help keep business units to remain focused on their tasks/deliverables,” Amaka said in a statement. According to her, business analytics and reporting have become very easy using Stride ERP as employees can report their transactions, evaluate performance, and process client activities electronically. After analysing the usage of data & analytics in Nigeria’s business environment, a report by one of the “Big Four” accounting and advisory firm KPMG revealed that businesses are yet to grasp the true potential that data can bring to decision-making as more than half of the businesses in the country prefer to base their decisions off intuition. “Stride ERP offers a lot of financial control measures ensuring that business owners don’t overspend on their budgets, and projects are implemented within the approved budget,” Amaka said. Regarding the firm’s major success in the last few years, Amaka noted that the company has been able to navigate challenging moments through its unique products and solutions which continue to provide results for the company’s client. Concerning how Stride ERP is different from its competitors, she explained that Stride ERP was designed to eliminate all complexities associated with implementing simple business processes, automating the functions around financial and operational transactions. “We have seen business owners and employees encounter difficulty in adapting to the change’s technology brings to their businesses, and this has made it more important for us to introduce change management systems/processes as part of our training modules in the deployment of Stride ERP,” Amaka said. She further noted that the company decided to reduce the cost of products as a way of giving back to society and to help businesses remain financially stable throughout the pandemic. “In the next few years, RyteGate Technologies will be at the forefront of providing cost-effective and innovative solutions to different sectors in the Nigerian economic space,” She concluded.