 Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba state has requested the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) to consider the state’s natural endowment towards enhancement of revenue allocation to the state. Ishaku issued the request on Tuesday at a two-day Sensitization and Advocacy Tour of the state by National Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission to Taraba held in Jalingo. The governor, who was represented by Suzy Nathan, Head of Service of the state said that the state was predominantly an agrarian in nature. He called for collaboration between the Federal Government and the state to tap and transform both the human and natural resources in the state into wealth. Ishaku also urged the commission to review the revenue allocation formula to reflect the changing realities. He, therefore, directed all the state actors and the local government council officials to cooperate with the commission to achieve the desired results. Earlier, Solomon Elisha, Taraba state Commissioner for Budget and Planning said that the event would provide an opportunity for other component units of the federation to contribute to the revenue allocation formula. Elisha also expressed optimism that the tour would give the sub nationals the opportunity to elicit more funds to develop them. He encouraged all stakeholders at the event to abreast themselves with the opportunity to be up to date on what the RMAFC wants. In his remarks, Chris Akomas Federal Commissioner in charge of Indicies and Disbursement of the commission said that the commission had embarked on advocacy towards the review of indices for the sharing of horizontal revenue formula. Akomas, who is a former Deputy Gov. of Abia said that all component units must co-own the review process. He decried the level of discrepancies in data from states and local governments during revenue allocation. He said that the commission was determined to establish a uniform figure that would ensure fairness and equitable distribution of revenue. BusinessDay that the interaction drew stakeholders from all revenue-generating agencies, heads of accounts, and local government administrators.