 Internet Solutions, an integrated IT solutions provider, is replacing its name to Dimension Data as part of a corporate rebrand effort that will also see Olugbenga Olabiyi assume the role of country manager for its Nigerian unit. In a statement BusinessDay received, the company said the rebrand is to enable the company to consolidate its businesses, enhance efficiency, and better deliver the changing technology needs of its clients in Nigeria. The new name is to also refocus the company to sustain its product and service delivery in an evolving industry. The COVID-19 pandemic not only impacted the revenue of many companies, but it also changed the way businesses carry out their operations, with greater emphasis now levied on technology adoption. As part of the name change, Dimension Data will be reoganised around five go-to-market segments including intelligence infrastructure; intelligent workplace and customer experience; intelligent business applications; intelligent innovation; and intelligent cybersecurity. “We are happy to have received the government’s approval allowing us to rebrand and operate as Dimension Data,” Olabiyi, the newly appointed country manager for Nigeria said. “Our vision is to be a partner of choice for businesses; delivering innovative, game-changing technology and solutions not only in Nigeria but in the Middle East and Africa.” As part of the rebrand Richard Hechle, former managing director of Internet Solutions will now be heading the group’s consolidated business in East and West Africa. “Bringing all our people and operating companies together will allow us to effectively and efficiently execute our go-to-market strategy and enable our clients’ success in a digital-first world,” Hechle said. “This digital-first world is characterised by technologies that are converging to deliver unified, hybrid and holistic solutions for real business impact.” He also said the company’s biggest value-creation model will be based on the way it collaborates with clients. Hence, the more Dimension Data focuses on seamless client experiences, the more focused it becomes on delivering solutions that work. “We believe that when we understand our clients’ needs, we deliver better solutions,” he said.