 A former senator, Daisy Danjuma, on Monday urged Edo women to rally behind the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki for a second term in the forthcoming governorship election slated for Saturday, September 19. Danjuma, who represented Edo South Senatorial District in the National Assembly from 2003 to 2007, made the call at a reception organised in her honour by Edo women for Obaseki/Shaibu in Benin City, the state capital. The former senator, who is the wife of Theophilus Danjuma, a retired general, said there is no need to change a performing team, noting that the governor deserves a second term for continuity of good governance. She said the governor’s sterling performance in all sectors of the state’s economy compelled her to endorse the governor’s candidacy for a second term in office at a function in Lagos even before the governor’s defection to PDP. Read also: APC asks Obasanjo, Atiku, PDP to account for $16bn power money, privatisation, subsidy “Governor Obaseki was in APC and I saw all what he was doing in Benin. I then said to myself, ‘This is not about party but about the individual,” Danjuma said. “In my opinion, he has done well but as a member of Board of Trustees of PDP, I supported Obaseki for continuity even before his defection to the party. “Since the nation returned to democracy in 1999, Governor Lucky Igbinedion ruled for eight years, Adams Oshiomhole also ruled for eight years, why is it that a performing governor will not do eight years? There is no reason why a performing governor will not have a second term. “I saw it that Godwin Obaseki will do something great, that is why I said in spite of my party I must support him for a second term for continuity to be able to finish all the good job that he started, and that at the end of the tenure he will look for a person who will continue with his good work,” she said. Danjuma commended the former governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole, for identifying Governor Obaseki as the right person to succeed him to develop the state, saying that success in government is where a governor was able to produce a right successor. While canvassing for a violent-free election, she called on parents to sensitize their children on the need to shun violence and avoid being used as agent of electoral fraud. “It is your duty to encourage everybody around you, convince your husband, children and friends to come out on Saturday to vote for Governor Godwin Obaseki and PDP,” Danjuma said. “I always ask Nigerians who are rich to please improve the society, use your resource to improve the society. Our money is not for guns or for any violent things. Please, use it to improve the people and also feed the people. “We have a lot of things to do, please let’s support a good and performing governor that will provide us good governance. “Nobody has governed only for four years in the state. Please, let’s vote right. No man is God. Vote right. Use your PVCs right and vote for Obaseki’s re-election,” she said. Earlier, Betsy Obaseki, wife of the state governor, said that Governor Obaseki is fighting a political battle not to liberate only Edo State but the nation from the shackles of godfatherism. She urged women in the state to troop out on election day to re-elect the governor.