 Less than seven days to the September 19 governorship election in Edo State, the state chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), on Sunday, said the election is not a do-or-die affair for the party’s candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki. Chris Nehikhare, State Publicity Secretary of Edo State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) made the appeal at a press briefing in Benin City. Nehikhare, who is also the chairman media and publicity sub-committee, Edo 2020 campaign council, noted that the election is a very serious business and the party will not take it lightly. “We want to appeal to all Edo State indigenes that the election is not a do-or-die affair for Governor Godwin Obaseki. “What we need is a free and fair governorship election, and we are confident that Governor Godwin Obaseki will get the second term. “We have intelligence report that this is the only strategy our opponents have to cause trouble and disrupt the election but this is telling on them as the election approaches because they are going to lose with a very large margin. “Edo PDP is very happy that Edo people are going to determine who governs them not by rigging or influence of godfathers but by their Permanent Voters Card in their possession”,he said. Nehikhare, who appealed to Edo people and members of PDP not to retaliate when provoked or attacked by opposition, added that 30 to 45 percent voters are rooting for the re-election of the governor, compared to the low numbers of voters that had characterized previous governorship election in the state. He called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies to act within the oath of office they sworn to. While noting that the party is not seeking for any favour from the electoral officers and security, he however, urged them to ensure that the election is free, fair, transparent and credible. “We know how many PVCs that have been collected. We know the ones that have not been collected. We also know the number of voters in Edo State. We have a record in history the number of voters that normally come out; this time we are expecting 30-45 per cent more voters than before because of the enthusiasm the people want to relect the governor”,he added. He further expressed gratitude to Edo State citizens for their enthusiasm and hospitality shown to the party and his standard-bearer during the ward-to-ward campaign across the State.