 Political parties in Nigeria, under the umbrella of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) has called for a change in the current do or die politics in the country for democracy to thrive so that the citizens can reap the benefits of the globally acceptable system of government. President of the Central Management Committee of IPAC, Raph Nwosu made this assertion in Abuja on Friday after his inauguration and other members of his team. Nwosu stressed that Nigeria’s democracy is currently going through some form revaluation to rediscover its original objective and goal. He said: “The country’s democracy is undergoing revaluation and efforts should be to get it back to the original intent so that the country can make real progress”. According to Nwosu, IPAC would develop a political accountability document for Nigerian politicians as a way to entrench a new political culture in the country. “By the time we build our accountability papers for almost all political office holders in the country, that is important because the culture of politics in this country must change. “If we do not change that culture, nothing good will come out of our democracy and it will be a failure on the part of IPAC”, he stated. The new IPAC leader who commended the prompt intervention by the Oba of Benin Edo Uku Oba Ewuare 11 in widespread violence by parties ahead of the Edo governorship election said a document of political accountability by IPAC was aimed at addressing such issues. Earlier in his hand over address, the immediate past President of IPAC and the Secretary-General of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Peter Ameh urged the Nwosu-led management committee to conduct a free, fair and credible election for the council at the National and State levels within four months. Members of the IPAC Central Management Committee include Ralph Nwosu – Chairman (Acting President) A.A. Salam (Acting Vice President), Adekunle Rufai Omoaje (Acting Secretary-General), and Chuks Achusi (Acting National Treasurer). The mandate of the Central Management Committee include to: “Ensure the conduct of a free, fair, and credible Executive Council Elections at the National and State levels for the 2021 IPAC Executive Council in accordance with the Code. “Be responsible for the day to day running of the Council affairs for a period of 4 (four) months certain and ensure an immediate, complete and mandatory handover of administration to newly elected 11th National Executive Council leadership of the Inter-Party Advisory Council of Nigeria, at the expiration of the 4 (four) month period of engagement”.