 Governors elected under the platform of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) have commended President Muhammadu Buhari for efficiently managing Nigeria’s economy, as evident in the execution of major national projects such as railways, the 2nd Niger Bridge, Ajaokuta Steel and many roads across the country, according to the governors. They also lauded the Federal Government for successfully getting the United Kingdom (UK) Commercial Court, to order stay of execution which suspended any penalty against Nigeria, in respect of the $9.6 billion Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) debt judgement against the country. The APC Governors under the ageis of Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) stated this in their resolutions at the end of a teleconference meeting signed by Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku-Bagudu. According to them, the efficient management of the economy has strengthened the capacity of the Federal Government to control the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The forum applauded Nigeria’s certification by World Health Organisation (WHO) as polio-free country and restate the commitment of all Progressive Governors to continue to work with Federal Government for the eradication of all communicable diseases in the country. The APC Governors also congratulated the Federal Government for the re-election of Femi Adesina as President of the African Development Bank for second term and commended the Federal Government’s nomination of Ngozi Okonjo-Eweala for the position of Director General of the World Trade Organisation. “Finally, Forum commend President Muhammadu Buhari for setting up the APC, Executive and Legislative Tripartite Consultative Committee under the Chairmanship of Vice President, Prof. Yomi Osinbajo. This is a welcome innovation to enhance the capacity of APC to resolve all our political challenges and therefore develop our democracy. “Forum members unanimously re-affirm commitment to continue to support President Muhammadu Buhari, the Federal Government, APC and all our party leaders to expedite delivery of all our electoral promises to Nigerians” the resolutions read.