 Oyo State Government has reiterated its commitment to the development of all sectors of agricultural practice and services in the State as it announced its readiness to renovate the nine veterinary facilities in the State. The State’s Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development, Jacob Ojemuyiwa Ojekunle revealed this at a One Day Stakeholders meeting with Veterinarians on Harmonised Demand Notice, held at the State Veterinary Hospital, Mokola, Ibadan on Thursday. Ojekunle, who spoke through the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Bolatumi Oloko during an interview, noted that the present administration in the State, under the leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde was passionate about reviving and revamping every aspect of agriculture in the State and therefore has approved the renovation of all nine State-owned veterinary facilities where veterinary services were offered. He stated further that the purpose of the meeting was to address the issues arising from the Harmonised bill served by the government ITC Consultancy and Advisory Services, in order to seek common ground in payment of taxes and fees by the citizenry in veterinary practices. He however enjoined the stakeholders to cooperate with the government on the implementation of all developmental programmes while also assuring participants that the ministry would look into their plights concerning the demand notices in order to arrive at a common ground. “All your agitations and needs will be met, this meeting is primarily to intimate you of the State government’s readiness to bring about a new wave of positive development to the veterinary services in Oyo State, as of now, the State government has approved the renovation of the nine State-owned veterinary facilities across the State. “The working environment and rules of engagement among practitioners are also being looked into to benefit, not just the government, but practitioners and the general public as a whole,” she explained. Some of the participants expressed gratitude to the government for the opportunity to voice their opinions and express the challenges facing their profession, as it related to payment of taxes and fees. The President of Private Veterinary Medical Practitioners in Oyo State, Bolaji Olaomo, a medical doctor opined that veterinary practice is a social responsibility and not a business enterprise and therefore implored the government to avoid multiple taxations, as their members have already paid their dues to the federal government. He however encouraged his colleagues in the practice to cooperate with the government both in the federal and state levels to approach the necessary office for details on proper registration of their premises. The meeting had in attendance, principal officers from the Ministry of Agriculture and rural development, Representatives of ITC Consultants and Advisory Services, Board of Internal Revenue, Nigeria Veterinary Medical Association, Oyo State Chapter, Veterinary Council of Nigeria, South West Zone, and Veterinary Health Technologist of Oyo State.