 The Senate is considering the introduction of a Bill to combat all forms of cyber crimes to reduce the rising spate of cyber attacks in the country. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Information Communication Technology (ICT), Yakubu Oseni disclosed this during a working visit to one of the leading cyber security firms, CyberDome Nigeria in Abuja on Thursday. Speaking with journalists after a tour of facilities at the CyberDome, Oseni who expressed worry over the phenomenon of cyber attacks across the world said a Bill was already on the way to strengthen the fight against cyber crime. The lawmaker said: “What the National Assembly is doing to forestall cyber attacks is a world activity and not peculiar to Nigeria alone. Unfortunately, our youths are also engaged in cyber crimes and that is very unfortunate and alarming but the Senate and the National Assembly is not sleeping over the matter. “There is a Bill in the works to actually strengthen the fight against cyber crime and we are calling on the public to make relevant contributions. We and indeed, the whole of Nigerians are worried about this phenomenon and we hope everybody will key in as it is a fight for everyone and we hope people will come and make relevant contribution”. He stated that the National Assembly would hold conference on Cyber security in October for the public and people of interest to make presentations which could enable the legislature in its interventions on cyber crimes. On her part, Managing Director of CyberDome Nigeria, Chioma Iwuagwu, said the firm has capacity to protect critical infrastructure across Nigeria, especially at the national level. “CyberDome is conceived as a world class multi secret service provider. We provide bespoke cyber security operations such as critical infrastructure analysis that we are monitoring, among other solutions cross all industry verticals. We also provide services in those in oil and gas, energy, finance , healthcare and even government you can see states and federal government. The Senate committee on ICT and cybercrime just paid us a courtesy visit. “Basically what we do is to ensure that our security strategy are tailored to align with the business goal of the organization. And again we must have seen that with the COVID-19 there has been a lot of activities within the cyberspace which actually has made it recognized and the cyber criminals actually are not resting on their oars”, she added.