 Setonji Koshoedo, a former member of the House of Representatives from Badagry, also a former People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chairman in Lagos State, in this exclusive interview with INIOBONG IWOK, assesses the state of the nation, spate of insecurity, among other issues. Excerpts: Muhammadu Buhari has spent more than five years in office; what is your assessment of the administration? What a question! Does anyone need to waste time answering that question? Even a blind can see the failure of this administration. They have failed and it can be seen in every aspect of life of the people. What is your take on the state of insecurity, killings in the country? When the systems and institutions of security of a government have broken down, insecurity expresses itself in various ways. Frauds, killings and other disorders become the order of the day. In my view, our security architecture has collapsed and until we begin to think outside the box to foster solutions, we are going nowhere. As long as we continue to offer the same old solutions to our security problems, we cannot have a solution. We need a new and better approach. Things need to be done differently to solve this problem. There is the view in some quarters that Nigeria is not making progress in its democracy. What is your take? I agree with them. We are not. In fact, it’s getting worse. Our democracy has been bastardised. Politics is now business and not service. What do you expect from a democracy that only the moneybags can practise? But I blame the electorate too. A situation where no money or no vote is the order of the day, what do you expect? We need to get back to the basis. Our democracy must be able to usher in credible individuals into government. That is when we can expect meaningful democracy. They are the ones that will give our politics the kind of principles that can make democracy make sense. What are your expectations about the forthcoming Edo and Ondo gubernatorial elections? If elections are held free and fair, I expect PDP to win, though I have my reservations about how the primary in Ondo was handled. People are generally tired of APC, and that is a good opportunity for PDP. But my fear is that what happened in Kogi could repeat itself. You know what I mean. There are agitations for zoning of the presidency to the South in 2023. Some people have also said occupying the position should be on the basis of competency. What is your take? There is no geo-political zone that can’t produce competent candidates. Politics to me goes beyond the basic rules. There are many hidden norms and traditions that determine such a sensitive issue in all nations of the world, Nigeria is not an exception. We need to first of all define what we want. Are we electing another president to continue the way things are? We all know the way things are. We also need to consider our need for peace and unity which can only come from fairness. And that’s where the tradition of zoning emerged. For me, 2023 must consider our truthful resolve to live together as an indivisible nation to decide who the president becomes. Whatever selection that is just and fair to all Nigerians is what we should go for therefore. That’s my view on the issue. What is your take on raging agitations for Igbo presidency in 2023? As I said, there is no zone that can’t present a president of Nigeria. In fact, if we are to consider the potentials of an average Igbo man in trades and industries, they are very qualified for it. And they can get it if they play their game well, because it’s also a game. However, there are many other hidden factors at play. I’m indifferent, as long as Nigeria is united and good. You were a former federal lawmaker; what is your assessment of the 9th National Assembly so far? Well, as I said earlier, the products of politics depend on the products of elections. The 9th National Assembly cannot do better than the expectations of the process that created it. I leave the assessment of it to you to decide. Are we likely to see you vie for elective position in 2023? Well, that is in the hand of God. My approach is to take each day as it comes. The days ahead will dictate what will happen eventually. It is believed in some quarters that the PDP in Lagos is not doing enough in terms of playing the active role of opposition. What is your take? People are free to make their judgments, but I can say that Lagos PDP cannot be performing miracles to satisfy their critics. Lagos PDP is facing numerous problems, and until the National Arm of PDP sees Lagos as a main project that is worth national attention, they can’t do anything. Members in Lagos are most resilient despite all odds. The party needs to be encouraged and helped. Winning Lagos can’t be left for the remnants, with due respect, that are remaining to handle. The big wigs that have been over fed by PDP have left the party. A frantic effort needs to be put into it by all. That’s where the confidence of members can be regained to play their role as the main opposition party in Lagos and beyond.