 The All Progressives Congress (APC), has flagged off its campaign ahead of the October 10 governorship election in Ondo state, BusinessDay can authoritatively report. Speaking during the flag-off ceremony held at the Ondo State Sports Stadium, Akure, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the chairman of the National campaign council, said Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu had performed creditably well and deserves to be re-elected for a second term in office. According to Sanwo-Olu, the ruling All Progressives Congress both at the national and some other states would continue to take the welfare of the people very serious, adding that Governor Akeredolu has done the party proud with his Midas touch across the state. Also speaking, the Chairman APC National Caretaker Committee, MaiMala Buni of Yobe State, said the people of the state must not allow anyone to truncate the developmental stride of the Akeredolu administration. In his own statement, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, said Akeredolu projects are scattered across the three senatorial districts of the state with unique and deliberate qualities. He said the people of the state are known for this sophisticated political culture, adding that they will always value excellence that Akeredolu represents. Governor Akeredolu while speaking said he was prepared to do more than his administration has recorded in the last three and a half years in office. Akeredolu however, warned the people not to allow those who will come to ruin the gains that have been entrenched in the last three and a half years across the state. Other governors that attended the event include, Atiku Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Borno State governor, Babagana Zulum Kwara state governor, AbdulRahman AdulRasak, Osun state governor, Gboyega Oyetola, Ogun state governor, Dapo Abiodun, Sani Bello of Niger State, and the Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Chief David Onoja. Also in attendance are, Ministers for Transportations, Rotimi Ameachi, Minister of state for Petroleum, Timipre Silva, Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Tayo Alasoadura among other notable leaders.