 The Taraba State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Tuesday took its internal crisis to the Governor Mai-Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee, with a view to finding a lasting solution. The APC Chairman in Taraba, Ibrahim El-Sudi made this known while addressing journalists after a closed-door meeting with the Caretaker Committee at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja. El-Sudi said: “We also brought the problem of Taraba State to the Caretaker Committee for them to look into with the view to solving the same. “After addressing the Chairman and the Committee, he has assured us that they are going to look into the plights of Taraba APC with the view to solving the plethora of issues that are hanging in the air”. The Taraba APC Chairman however refused to disclose the problems facing the party in the State as they were in-house issues that can not be openly discussed, adding that the Caretaker Chairman has assured them that he is going to tackle the issues. “We talked of the membership drive. We have no power to register people unless we have directives from the National Secretariat, the federal presence in the State, and projects like roads from Numan to Jalingo and to expedite action of complete the Mambilla hydroelectric power project. Also, the problem of Ebib bridge”, he stated. Refuting claims that APC in Taraba was divided as a result of the defection of the former Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Alhassan, El-Sudi said: That’s a press hype. As you can see, all the juggernauts, movers, and shakers of APC are behind me. So, one person can not destroy or do anything to APC. “After all, when she moved to another party and contested, how many votes did she get? She got 16,000 plus. APC got over three hundred and forty-something thousand votes. So, her movement has not shaken APC in Taraba State. It is in the heart of Tarabans that they want APC and they will continue to support APC”. On the ability of the National Caretaker Committee to resolve the crisis in the party not only in Taraba but in other States, he said: “You can see that there is relative peace within the APC all over the country. And the chairman is a tested and trusted leader. He was a secretary in his state. He was chairman of another party in his state. And, he was the national secretary. “So, he knows the plethora of problems inundating the party and he has already taken steps towards solving most of these problems. The period is enough. If it is not enough, it should be added in his capacity to solve the problem confronting APC”.