 As technology industry stakeholders and enthusiasts prepare for the Nigeria Innovation Week — a week long event that brings together players in different sectors of Nigeria’s economy, who are keen on leveraging technology for business and economic growth, is set to hold a virtual summit from Tuesday October 6, 2020 to Thursday, October 8, 2020, people are wondering what to expect from this year’s edition. This is especially considering the fact that the COVID 19 pandemic has made innovating even more critical for both public and private sectors of every economy. With a focus on ‘Innovating in Critical Times’, the event organisers have confirmed that the week will be packed with several activities like innovation exhibitions, Nigeria innovation summit, Nigeria innovation awards, and the yearly report of the state of innovation in Nigeria. At the event, ideas, trends, opportunities around technology, innovation, and entrepreneurship development in Nigeria will be discussed. Speaking about the event, Kenneth Omeruo, the lead convener and the founder of InnovationHub Africa & Resources Limited, said that innovation in the 21st century is putting nations ahead of others. According to Omeruo, Nigeria Innovation Week is a week set aside to showcase innovative businesses, ideas, products and services from Nigeria. “It also reviews the state of innovation in Nigeria, where we are today and how we can move forward. “Participation in this week-long event is opened to local and international businesses, organisations, government agencies, start-ups, entrepreneurs, research centres, tertiary institutions, and all the stakeholders in the innovation ecosystem”, he said. Omeruo said the event will also showcase innovative businesses, ideas, products and services from Nigeria. “The state of innovation in Nigeria is also reviewed to understand its position and how it can be improved”. Tony Ajah, the programmes director, said the summit receives delegates from local and international businesses, organisations, government agencies, states and representatives, embassies and high commissions, investors, CEOs, start-ups, entrepreneurs, research centres, tertiary institutions, business leaders/decision makers, and all the stakeholders in the innovation ecosystem. “This year has been tough for businesses but companies that are innovative see opportunities in most crisis. Nigeria Innovation Week 2020 will feature innovation showcases and exhibitions, keynote presentations on emerging technologies and their industry application, panel discussions, innovation management insights as well as workshops, networking and awards. He listed programmes during the week-long virtual event as follows: “There will be innovation showcase and exhibitions from innovation hubs, and research centres with solutions for industrial applications, adoption and commercialisation on the first day. “We have also planned that on day 2, there will be innovation showcase and exhibitions from tertiary institutions from the 36 States of the federation, government agencies, and international organisations. “The Nigeria Innovation Summit and the Nigeria Innovation Awards will hold on Thursday, October 8, 2020”. Speaking on why corporate organisations and individuals should participate, Ajah said: “The event benefits each participating key player in the innovation ecosystem from government institutions, states and agencies to businesses and organisations, academic and research centers as well as start-ups and young entrepreneurs.”