 The Nasarawa State House of Assembly Committee on Capital Market has expressed its readiness to partner any organisation that would boost the socio-economic activities of the people of the state. The member representing Uke/Karshi Constituency in the House, Mohammed Bello Isa, stated this while playing host to the management of Continental Logistics Limited in Lafia on Wednesday. Isa stressed that any investors ready to create jobs and improve the revenue base of the state would be supported to succeed in their mandate. According to the lawmaker, effective collaboration with the firm in the area of sesame seed production would help improve revenue, enhance agriculture and tackle unemployment in the state. “I want to appreciate you for the visit and to assure you of my committee’s readiness to collaborate with you considering the benefits of sesame seed production to societal development,” Isa said. “I want to disclose to you that it is fortunate today the House has passed investment and development agency bill into law, as His Excellency, Governor Abdullahi Sule is passionate about developing our state. He is a business-friendly governor and your coming is timely. READ ALSO: IFAD, World Bank, FG to support women smallholder farmers, outgrowers in Nasarawa So, we will synergise with you in the area of sesame seed production for the overall development of our state,” he said. He further stressed the importance of sesame seed production to human and societal development, hence the need for the partnership. The Managing Director (MD) of the firm, Mike Mornu, said that the visit was to seek collaboration with the state government and the House on sesame seed production. “We are into sesame seed business which includes processing and export of the product. We are soliciting for your support and partnership considering the importance of Sesame seed production to the development of society. It will provide job opportunities, boost socio-economic activities of the state and will also improve IGR of the state if properly given attention,” he said. Also speaking, the Senior Partner, Agro Solutions and Consult Services Ltd, Mikail Kassimu, who was in the entourage of Continental Logistics Limited, spoke on the benefits of sesame production to national development.