 A faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamafara State loyal to a former Senator Kabiru Marafa has called on Governor Mai-Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee of the party to intervene in the crisis rocking APC in the State. Former Publicity Secretary of APC in Zamafara, Bello Bekyasuwa who made the call while briefing journalists in Abuja said the crisis rocking the party in the State would degenerate into serious issues at the national level if the Caretaker fails to urgently intervene and resolve the dispute. Bekyasuwa said the Marafa group’s candidate for the Bakura State Constituency bye-election, Sani Yar’Kofogi has been disqualified to favour the camp loyal to former Governor of the State, Abdulazeez Yari, whom he accused of destroying the party in the State for his selfish interest. He dismissed the report trending in the social media that the APC Caretaker Committee has instructed the ex-Governor Yari camp to sanction the Marafa faction, insisting that the Buni Committee cannot descend so low to do the bidding of the Yari faction. The APC Chieftain said: “We are calling on the public to disregard the information that Marafa faction caused the problem. You press know that a competent court in Zamfara State has dissolved all APC faction and order for fresh Congresses that will produce APC leaders in Zamfara State so that we can move into the forthcoming election. “So, we are calling on the general public to disregard that information. Our aspirant wrote about sixty days before the election due to his hectic medical profession because they have a regulation that has to be in place before the countdown and he told them but they refused to listen. “They said Marafa faction were the ones that took the party to the court that is why we virtually lost everything so why would Marafa faction come and contest. You can imagine what they are saying. It was Yari’s faction being Zamfara Governor that violated the primary election guidelines and the party’s constitution which serves a guideline stating that if within a period of time and there is no consensus, primaries whether direct or indirect, everything would be over. “Yari stood by that and brought his people into a room and announced the result of candidates that he has done primaries. He declared all his candidates winners. Where have you ever seen that? After that, he took the party to the court that it manipulated the primary election as a governor. “This primary election is only allowed to be conducted by the national headquarters, not by the state party chairman. So that is the root cause of all the problems. This problem started with the congress where he took us to court. “Up till now, nobody has ever contacted Yari that what he did was wrong. In fact, some people are praising him and giving him appointments as if he did something better for the party”