 The Edo State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the Edo Equity Forum on Thursday commended the Benin Monarch, Oba Ewuare II for the timely intervention in putting a stop to the ongoing political violence ahead of the September 19 governorship election in the state. Recall that the Benin Monarch on Wednesday invited the chieftains and governorship candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for a peace meeting at his palace over the incessant political attack between supporters of the APC and the PDP. Chris Nehikhare, the publicity secretary of the party who made the commendation at a press briefing in Benin City, noted that the monarch’s timely intervention will go a long way in bringing political sanity to the state before, during and after the election. “We, the PDP as a political party, are very proud of the Oba and we are very proud of the way he handled the situation yesterday. His royal majesty is truely a man of great wisdom and all Edo people should tap from his wisdom. “In Benin customs where there is quarrel or disturbance in a home, the father or the eldest of that house call the most senior or the most responsible child or persons and ask him why all these disturbances under his command. That is what the monarch did yesterday by calling the governor of the state Godwin Obaseki and his opponent in the APC. “As a political party we are very excited for the timely intervention of His Royal Majesty in the very embarrassing situation we found ourselves when shooting become the order of the day especially in Edo North senatorial district. “He spoke to us like a father and the two main candidates, the APC and PDP. We have assured the Oba that we will do everything within our power to bring the tension in the state, as well as all the shooting and thuggery to an end. “We take his intervention very serious and I will like to thank him for his fatherly intervention in the issue”,he said. The PDP spokespersons, who alleged that the former National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole was the brain behind the several shootings and attacks on the party members in Edo North senatorial district, however, called on the Inspector General of Police and the State Commissioner of Police to issue a search warrant on his residence at Iyamho and Benin City. He added that the Benin monarch never called for an end to an investigation on those allegedly indicted for the several attacks on the party’s members in the Edo North senatorial district. .
“Edo PDP want to say that there is no time criminals were given amnesty at yesterday meeting with the Oba. There is no time the majesty said the police should stop investigation on anybody indicted for all the shooting that has been taking place or attacked on the home of political parties members in the state”,he added. He however, passed a vote of confidence on the deputy governor of the state, Philip Shaibu for policing, the former national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole as well as exposed all his activities to the police. “We want to thank the deputy governor, Philip Shaibu, for doing an excellent jobs for the party and for the state. It is somebody we all proud of and because he has worked closely with Adams Oshiomhole in the past, he know the ways Adams Oshiomhole thinks, the boys Adams Oshiomhole used, how he deployed them and what they are capable of doing. “So we want to continue to encourage the deputy governor to be on the look out and alert the police anytime he hear about the movement of these criminals who hide under the cover of Adams Oshiomhole residence in Iyamho”,he said. Reacting to the PDP allegations, Victor Oshioke, spokesperson for the former National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole described the allegations as preposterous, unbelievable. Oshioke said the allegations were part of PDP desperate attempt to tarnish the image of Oshiomhole. “Oshiomhole is busy campaigning and selling the SIMPLE agenda of the party to the people and will not be distracted. He is not interested in joining issues with the PDP. “He has no hand in the violence and will never. Nobody comes to his house at Iyamho with weapons. It is only details comes in with weapons and everybody who comes in is seriously searched at the gate before entry”, he said. Meanwhile, a group under the aegis of Edo Equity Forum also commended Monarch for the peace meeting between candidates of the PDP and the APC ahead of the September 19 governorship election in the state. Benjamin Omoigui, the spokesman of the group at a press briefing in Benin opined that the meeting was in the interest of Edo people. “We are here to commend the Oba for the recent peace meeting between candidates of the PDP and the APC . “We know that this intervention is for the benefit of Edo people and the PDP who would gain nothing from the continued violent attacks on their members and the electorate. “This is because Edo people have been emphatic in their choice of the PDP and their support has been absolute and unflinching. “With the Oba’s assurances, Edo people should be assured that the election is going to be peaceful, free and fair,” he stated.