 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State on Monday accused the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) of contriving violence in some local government areas with the intention of compelling the authorities to declare a state of emergency in the state and consequently postpone the September 19, 2020 governorship election. Chris Nehikhare, state publicity secretary of the party, who made the accusation during a press conference in Benin City on behalf of the PDP Campaign Council, said the APC is only scared of its candidate and Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, and has resorted to the irresponsible tactic to subvert the will of Edo people. “Knowing that they have lost the election, they are now looking for all ways and means to have the election postponed, have a state of emergency declared or not to have the election at all,” Nehikhare said. “APC is now contriving violence on their supporters and members. We condemn this irresponsible tactic where nothing would happen and APC would want to create or contrive violence in Edo State. “The Oba of Benin called all political gladiators to a peace meeting in his palace, urging them to sheath their sword. We are happy to announce to you that PDP has worked on that and are happy to report that in the past few days no report of violence on our leaders across the three Senatorial Districts in the state. Since the Oba spoke on the issue we can categorically say that there have been no new reported cases. “We challenged them (APC) a few days ago, prior to the Oba’s intervention to produce any catalog where any APC person was attacked. Let them produce it like the PDP has done, which is in the public domain. PDP is committed to a free, fair and credible election come September 19, 2020,” he said The party further noted that the Simple Agenda of the APC does not talk about the post-COVID-19 era of the economy and global downturn. “The Simple Agenda reminds me of the fake promises made by the APC government in 2015, promising to reduce fuel price and give every child a meal each day. Nigerians are aware of the failed nature of the APC. They have failed at the federal level as they are unable to manage the economy,” Nehikhare said. “The APC is a collection of people that make promises that they cannot keep. At the federal level, they have ruined the economy and want to ruin our economy in Edo State; that is why they are in the election. We would not give a chance to any party that can’t keep promises; we would stop them as Nigerians believed the lies told by the APC in 2015,” he said.