 Immediate past governor of Ondo state and the National Leader of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Olusegun Mimiko, has described his successor in office, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as a disappointment to the people of the state, saying APC and Akeredolu run anti-people government in the state. Mimiko stated this at the weekend in Ile-Oluji, Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo Local Government Area of the state during the campaign tour of Agboola Ajayi, the party’s governorship candidate in the October 10, 2020 gubernatorial election in the state. He described his successor’s government as anti-people because of the cancellation of free health and increase in tuition fees paid by tertiary institutions in the state, adding that Akeredolu’s government had failed the people of the state in all critical sectors affecting the well-being of the people. According to him, the APC-led government of Akeredolu’s claim to performance is nothing but falsehood as all indices showed otherwise. “There is no person that will say he has not performed. But how do we differentiate performance? Any government that has not democratised education is a bad government. “This government that hiked school fee is a bad government. Akeredolu’s government is an enemy of the people. Anybody that votes Akeredolu is selling his children future. “Any government that does not make health free is your enemy. Akeredolu’s government is an enemy of the people by cancelling mother and child and free health for children. “Any time they come here to campaign for votes ask him, where is our shuttle buses? Where is our abiye? The government that cancelled trauma centre is your enemy.” Mimiko said the utterances of Akeredolu have clearly shown that he is not part of the state as he had vowed to go back to his base if not voted for. Mimiko said “This government has not performed, he is anti-people. Any Government that fails to democratize access to Education , Health and other essentials services to the people is not a good Government.” The former governor lamented the failure of his successor to build on the successes recorded in the health and education sectors during his tenure as Governor. He questioned the need for the Akeredolu led administration to cancel free health services and free education in primary and secondary levels noting that any government that fails to prioritize education and health is anti-people. The ZLP national leader also fumed at the cancellation of the Accident Emergency scheme which was established by the his administration to reduce the number of deaths on express roads around Ondo state. He, however, urged the people to vote out the anti-people government and vote for Agboola Ajayi and Gboye Adegbenro as Governor and Deputy governor on the platform of the ZLP. In his short remark, Ajayi said he has listened to the cries of the people and have offered himself as alternative to this misrule of Akeredolu.