 A private sector agribusiness Initiative, known as Agbetuntun is set to empower 5,000 youths from Ekiti state in all areas of the agricultural value chain, covering production, processing, warehousing, branding, and marketing. Agbetuntun, founded by the former President of Ekiti State Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Kola Akosile said it will empower 5000 youths annually under Ekiti Youths Connect for a period of five years consecutively in the state. Akosile, who is the chief executive officer of the organisation, disclosed this during a courtesy visit to the Ekiti State Commissioner for Agriculture and Food Security, Olabode Adetoyi. The CEO said that his organization was key to the South West regional cocoa project, aimed at the resuscitation of the cash crop in the region, adding that Agbetuntun was in partnership with the Lagos Business School and Association of Nigeria Cocoa Exporters (ANCE) in the ongoing enumeration of cocoa farmers in Ekiti state to have a reliable data that would aid their support. He said further that efforts were being intensified to train 2000 cocoa farmers and as well working with FADAMA and Agricultural Development Project (ADP) in the state to empower another 3,000 cassava growers. While expressing his appreciation to the state government for the land allocated to the organization, Akosile said that he was also considering the resuscitation of rubber cultivation in Ekiti state in conjunction with the National Association of Rubber Producers and Marketing. He called on the state government to assist the investors in land clearing and adequate security of lives and their investments. Responding, Olabode Adetoyi, Commissioner for Agriculture, asserted that the governor was pertinent at boosting the financial base of the state by opening up the agricultural potentials to the outside world, stressing that Kayode Fayemi has been working with other southwest governors on how to boost cocoa production in the region with the involvement of private investors. Adetoyi said that it was time for the state to diversify its revenue base, and utilize the various agricultural potentials for sustainable economic growth. He charged the industrialist to use his connections and experience to attract more investments to the state.