 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd has taken another leap forward in deepening users experience and productivity with the virtual unveiling of Galaxy Z Fold2. Samsung with this new introduction continues to pioneer an entirely new category of mobile devices by introducing the newest foldable that pairs bold design with advanced engineering. Caden Yu, managing director of Samsung says that with the launch of the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold2, the company closely listened to user feedback from users to ensure it was bringing meaningful improvements to the hardware, while also developing new innovations to enhance the user experience. Yu stated that the journey to reach the next generation of mobile is full of originality and innovation, adding that Galaxy Z Fold2 combines the portability and flexibility of a smartphone with the power and screen size of a tablet for ultimate productivity. He says that Galaxy Z Fold2 is available from the 11th of September, 2020 with a limited Phone Cover offer, Samsung Care+(discounted screen repair, hardware repair and software coverage) and 4 months YouTube premium, adding that the Z Fold 2 would be officially available in the market from the 2nd of October, 2020. He further noted that strengthened by industry-leading partnerships with Google and Microsoft, Samsung is reshaping and redefining the possibilities of the mobile device experience. “After releasing two foldable devices and listening to user feedback on the most requested upgrades and new features, Samsung unveils the Galaxy Z Fold2 with meaningful innovations that offer users enhanced refinements and unique foldable user experiences”, Yu said. Commenting on the uniqueness of the Galaxy Z Fold2, the managing director stated that the phone comes packed with two edge-to-edge, nearly bezel-less Infinity-O Displays. According to Yu, “The new foldable future brings to you the next level of multitasking with the ability to open up to 3 windows and drag and drop content across windows, noting that while the flex mode allows users to view their content at different angles and on two screens at the same time, it also provides a hands-free camera experience. “Whether folded or unfolded, you can enjoy a luxury mobile experience with Galaxy Z Fold2’s premium design. You can capture and view images or video right after the shot is taken and instantly delete the result without entering the gallery”. “With its sleek design and refined engineering, Galaxy Z Fold2 comes in two equally stunning colours: Mystic Black and Mystic Bronze, side fingerprint sensor for easy screen unlock, 12GB RAM/256GB ROM, a long-lasting battery of 4500mAh with 25W fast charging” Yu said.