 There are strong indications that banks operating in Edo State could monitor closely, daily banking transactions, ahead of the September 19 governorship election, where over two million registered voters are expected to decide the fate of the state in the next four years. Statistics release by Festus Okoye, commissioner, information and voter education, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), have it that 20, 974 officials of the commission are expected to conduct the election in 192 wards and 2,627 polling units in the state. However, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) Benin zonal, is also said to have advised Compliance officers of banks to report suspicious transactions to the Commission. Muhtar Bello, Benin Zonal head of the EFCC, dropped the hint during a meeting with compliance officers of various banks in Benin City, Edo State. Dele Oyewale, head, Media & Publicity for the agency, said Bello spoke to the bankers on behalf of the acting Executive Chairman, Umar Abba Mohammed, charged the bankers to be at alert as politicians may want to use banks for illicit transactions before, during and after the elections. “Once the transaction is above the stipulated threshold, you have a duty to report. So, be alert,” he said. He noted that bankers have a key role to play in the fight against corruption and economic and financial crimes, but bemoaned the fact that most of the frauds committed by fraudsters were aided by bankers. “Sometimes, bankers are culpable because they do not always carry out due diligence and comprehensive ‘Know Your Customers’. That should be a continuous process,” he said. He charged bankers to adhere strictly to banking rules, shun temptation in the line of duty and report any transaction that fails the simple rules of integrity. “Adhere to the rules of ‘Know Your Customer’ and acquaint yourself with the Money Laundering Act, so you don’t fail in your duties,” he said. Recall that Adamu Muhammed, the inspector-general of Police, has earlier warned politicians and their supporters in Edo and Ondo States, where governorship elections are scheduled to hold on September 19, 2020 and October 10, 2020 respectively, to conduct themselves properly, play by the rules and steer-clear of tendencies capable of undermining the electoral process in the two states. Frank Mba, force public relations officer, said IGP gave the warning having reviewed the Election Security Threat Assessment Reports submitted by the Commissioners of Police from both states in a meeting held Tuesday, August 25, 2020. According to him, the Election Security Threat Analysis revealed amongst other indicators: arming and movement of political thugs, use of inciting statements during political campaigns, high likelihood of violence and possible cross attack by political opponents, misinformation/disinformation aimed at heating-up of the polity and deliberate efforts at delegitimising government institutions involved in the electoral processes. He therefore ordered the Commissioners of Police in the two States – Edo and Ondo – to reorganise their preparations for the elections to accommodate and address the threats and emerging trends as contained in the security report. He noted that the Force leadership is evolving customised security architecture to protect the people and ensure hitch-free elections. The IGP further warned politicians and their supporters in Edo and Ondo that the Force will not hesitate to bring the full weight of the law on anyone or group, irrespective of status that may want to sabotage the security arrangement being emplaced for the elections. Meanwhile, the IGP assured Nigerians, particularly the people of Edo and Ondo States that the Force remained committed to protecting the sanctity of the ballot in the country. He reiterated that the Police would be neutral, apolitical and would work assiduously with all stakeholders in ensuring a level playing ground for all in the elections.