 The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, on Thursday, urged tribunal judges who will sit over petitions arising from Edo and Ondo States’ governorship elections not to be swayed by sentiments and cheap blackmail in the course of discharging their duties. The CJN asked the judges to be firm and upright in their adjudication. Muhammad made the remarks in Abuja while swearing-in 85 judges who will adjudicate on election petition tribunals in the forthcoming governorship polls in the two states and the bye-elections in other parts of the country. While Edo governorship election is slated for September 19, that of Ondo is October 10. “There is no doubt that temptations, tribulations, intimidations and even sheer blackmails may be unleashed on you but as thoroughbred judicial officers, you must guide your loins to rise above all and do what will earn you accolades in the court of public opinions,” Muhammad said. “There is no mountain too high to scale, and there is no goal too difficult to achieve as far as you have firmly resolved to attain higher heights in life,” he said. SEE ALSO: https://businessday.ng/lead-story/article/under-my-watch-the-judiciary-would-continue-to-uphold-rule-of-law-cjn/ The CJN told the judges that they are expected to conduct their affairs within the ambit of the law and the oath that has just been administered on them, as anything short of that would place them on the wrong side of history and God would ask them the questions that they may not be confident enough to answer. “I will not condone any act of recklessness, abuse of power and public trust. This is a rare opportunity and you must give a good account of yourselves,” the CJN stated. “You should count yourselves worthy to be so entrusted with this humongous responsibility of deciding the fate of those who would be contesting the highest political offices in Edo and Ondo States, respectively, and some other political offices in other states by virtue of the forthcoming elections,” he said. The CJN reminded the judges that trust is a burden which they must discharge with utmost sincerity, honesty and transparency, “because conscience is an open wound healed only by truth”. He urged members of the election petition tribunal to rise and operate above every sentiment that might play out in the course of their adjudication in the tribunal. “All eyes are on you and always remember that your conducts will be publicly dissected and thoroughly scrutinized. Do what is right in our law books and you will have your names etched in gold,” Muhammad said. “Do what is at variance with your conscience and you will get a scar that will terminally dent your ascension to higher height in life,” he said.