 Ondo state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has pledged to support the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters in Akure, the state capital, over the inferno that destroyed a section of the office Thursday night. Recall that thousands of card readers were yesterday night damaged as fire guts a container housing Smart Card Readers at the head office of the commission in Akure. It was gathered that the burnt card readers were meant for the conduct of the state’s Governorship election slated for 10 October. But governor Akeredolu who was at the scene of the incident with other top government officials, expressed shock at the unwholesome development noting that the fire must have been very serious following offensive smokes emanating from the scene sixteen hours after the fire outbreak. Akeredolu maintained that the replacement of the destroyed gadgets especially the card readers would be of great cost particularly in less than a month to the governorship election hence for the state’s support. Appreciating the governor’s visit, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Rufus Akeju said effort was on to know the cause of the inferno. According to him, all burnt gadgets would be soon replaced by INEC for smooth conduct of the October 10 governorship election in the state. Meanwhile, the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state, Agboola Ajayi has called for the proper investigation of the fire incident and brings those culpable to face the wrath of the law. The deputy governor, in a statement made available to journalists in Akure through his Chief Press Secretary, Babatope Okeowo said, “the question that readily comes to the minds of reasonable citizens is why did the fire target the store where card readers meant for the election were kept? “The law enforcement agencies should ask if the intention of those responsible for inferno is to seek the postponement of the election or the cancellation of the use of card readers for accreditation. “The people of Ondo State are waiting patiently for the outcome of the investigation as they will not tolerate any ploy by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to subvert the wish of the electorate.”