 President Muhammadu Buhari has been urged to send Federal Government agencies to conduct a comprehensive assessment on the level of damage caused by the rainstorm in Kwara State and report back to him in due course. This followed a life-threatening disaster occasioned by the torrential rainstorm last Saturday across the state which left behind very heart-breaking aftermath among the people. Kola Shittu, chairman People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Kwara State chapter, who gave the indication while addressing journalists in Ilorin the state capital, accused the state governor of insensitivity to the plight of the victims of rainstorm disaster. “It is very disheartening that Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, who is the head of government of the state had made himself unavailable in the state.” Although, the governor Wednesday last week visited some of the affected victims while his deputy, Kayode Alabi, had flagged off the distribution of palliatives to some victims in Moro and Edu Local Government Areas of the state. But the party chairman insisted that, “we will be relaying to the world the obvious lack of human empathy and gross insensitivity to the grief of our people so exhibited by the state government, particularly the governor whose approach to welfare of victims of this disaster can best be described as callous and inhumane. “It will interest you to know that the Committee set up by the state government barely 48 hours ago, to assess the level of damage caused by the rainstorm is yet to give any report. “We then wonder how the governor came about the report that fifteen thousand (15,000) persons have been displaced and that property and farm products worth N10billion had been damaged or destroyed as a result of the disaster.” Shittu explained that the party members led by himself had visited places affected by the rainstorm, saying “The Kwara PDP is worried by this sad development and we offer our heartfelt sympathies to all those affected by this natural disaster.” The PDP chairman, however, appreciated the effort of the Emir of Ilorin, Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari who immediately swung into action by making relief items available to victims of the rainstorm.