 Association of Butchers in Edo State chapter on Wednesday threw their weight behind the re-election of governor Godwin Obaseki for a second term. The association make its position known during a solidarity rally in Benin City. The butchers carried placards of various inscriptions such as, “We will defend our vote, I started my business, We say no to looting”. Addressing newsmen in Benin City , chairman of the association, Akhere Odijie, said they have resolved to vote for Obaseki so that he can sustain the developmental strides geared towards ensuring better lives for Edo people. Odijie said the endorsement of the governor was due to his numerous developmental contributions to the State, particularly the administration’s provision of enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the State. “We are here to endorse Godwin Obaseki, and his running mate, Philip Shaibu. We, Edo butchers have agreed that Godwin Obaseki shall continue to occupy for Osadebey house. “Today, we shut down meat sellers to endorse him and we shall vote for him. The government has proposed a blueprint for butchers and he will fulfill once he wins. “We commended the Government for creating the enabling environment for businesses to thrive, stability and abolishing extortion in the State. “We the butchers have agreed in totality that Obaseki is our next Governor and that he shall continue to occupy the seat of Government till 2024 because of his developmental strides and laudable programmes for butchers. “Today, we have shutdown our abattoirs and other meat shops and meat sellers across the various markets in Edo State to endorse Godwin Obaseki”,he said. Odijie, added that since the governor’s assumption of office there has been peace the union. He enjoined all butchers as well as meat sellers in the State to come out en masse to vote for the governor for second term. Responding, Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Edo State Council, Comrade Roland Osakue, commended the group for their peaceful disposition. He commended the efforts of members of association for coming out to endorse the governor in spite of the rainfall. “It is your fundamental right to endorse any Candidate of your choice because it is your fundamental human rights. “Do not allow miscreants to infiltrate into your midst. We owe it a duty as Citizens to protect Government property which belong to all of us. “Tax payers money must be used judiciously for the benefit of our people”,he added.