 The National President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Felix Omobude on Wednesday called on the people of Edo State to maintain peace and orderliness before, during and after the September 19 governorship election in the state. Omobude made the call in a statement through his Media Aide, Ralph Okhiria and made available to newsmen in Benin City. The PFN national president, who is also the General Superintendent of Gospel Light International Ministry (GLIM) – New Covenant Gospel Church (NCGC), said the election of an individual politician is not worth the blood or life of any resident of the state. “My dear good people of Edo State, I identify and join my voice to the many other good citizens of the state to call for peace during this governorship election scheduled for Saturday, this week. “The contestants have traversed the length and breadth of the state and have told us what they intend to do and can do. It is now our duty to make our choices and then come out boldly to exercise our franchise. “I want to call on you to do what is right. Don’t give yourself to violence, don’t allow your children to be used for violent activities,” he said. READ ALSO: Presidential anti-corruption committee rejects move to scrap EFCC The cleric further said: “The Church stands for truth. We stand for justice. We stand for equity. Let’s defend our values. Truth must overcome falsehood. Light must overcome darkness.” While enjoining the electorate not to sell their conscience by selling their votes, he urged them to stand for that which is only just and in the overall interest and development of the state. He also enjoined all Christians in Nigeria, particularly those in Edo State to be prayerful, go back to their core value as the pillar of truth and rise up in prayers against the forces of evil. He also noted that election is a period to reward good with votes and also a period to punish evil with Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC). Omobude, however, appealed to politicians to be more circumspect in their utterances and activities, by ensuring that they put the state first in all their conducts. “They should not let their ambitions blindfold them or override the peace of the state. It is important that politicians do not destroy the state and people they aspire to govern. “Furthermore, it is important that the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) carry out their jobs professionally, to engender peaceful, free, fair and credible election that we all will be proud of,” he added.