 As Ondo state gubernatorial election draws closer, violence has again occurred between the supporters of the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) candidate, Eyitayo Jegede and that of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The violence that occurred on Tuesday at Ipele community in Owo Local Government Area of the state, was said to have occurred when the campaign train of the PDP arrived the community which was the second time that the two political parties would clash in the state. Jegede, who alleged that policemen supervised the attack on his campaign train by heavily-armed APC thugs, specifically said the Divisional Police Officer, DPO of Ipele was alleged to have backed the thugs all through the attack. The PDP flagbearer through his campaign’s Head of Media Research, Kayode Fasua, said the political thugs from the camp of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), attacked supporters of the PDP upon their entry into Ipele. Fasua said, “a PDP member by name, Amuda Sikiru, was shot in the face and abdomen during our campaign rally in Owo town by the APC thugs. The victim who is still lying unconscious was rushed to the state’s specialist hospital in Akure in the Ambulance attached to the candidate’s convoy. “Also wounded by the APC thugs’ bullet attacks were Taye Akintufede and Seun Ogunlade. They have also been rushed to the hospital. “Besides, some of our campaign vehicles were damaged, as was witnessed in Oba-Akoko community recently. One of the convoy’s campaign trucks was completely burnt down. “Earlier in the day, the same APC armed hoodlums had blocked the entry point to Ipele community, Jegede’s maternal home, and attempted to turn back the campaign team. “This spate of attacks on our members by the ruling party in the state is threatening the peace of the state, and is apparently intended to cause violence ahead of the October 10 governorship election. “We are calling on the Inspector-General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, the human rights community, and other international bodies to come to our rescue in Ondo State. “We want a free and fair election, but the party in power does not.” Meanwhile, the camp of Governor Akeredolu accused the PDP candidate of instigating the attack in the community. Richard Olatunde, Spokesperson of Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa Campaign Organization, stated that “Eyiyato Jegede SAN, ordered his thugs to unleash co-ordinated attacks on the innocent people of Ipele and Ijebu in Owo local government area. Our people were traumatized with the sound of gunshots sporadically by Eyiyato Jegede thugs in Owo today. “Sensing that the PDP might be in the main town, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, ordered his campaign convoy to take another route out of the town. “Despite this, Eyitayo Jegede and the PDP still went ahead to cause mayhem in Owo by attacking innocent members of the public and anyone with APC or Akeredolu branded caps or T-Shirt. “No fewer than 20 cars were destroyed and many innocent people of Ipele and Ijebu Owo injured. Motorcycles were burnt and the streets of Ipele littered with shells of bullets. “This intimidation to scare the people of Owo from coming out to vote massively for their son will not work. The people are resolved to support Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. “We must also note that the PDP went berserk when no one received them into Owo. They obviously prepared to come into the ancient town for attacks and violence not to campaign,”