 The newly inaugurated Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) has promised to conduct a transparent election that citizens of the state would be proud of. Isiaka Olagunju, chairman, OYSIEC, who made the pledge during the courtesy call of members of the board to Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS), Ibadan, said: “Our plan is to conduct an election that is transparent and acceptable to all; that every citizen of the state will like”. Olagunju said that the commission would not engage in any act that will affect the interest of the public because of personal gains at all stages of electoral processes.
“Also, our personal interest will not be above the interest of the people and a level playground would be adopted to ensure all political parties participate in the poll,” he said. The commission’s chairman hinted that concerted efforts would be made to change the perception of the public on the form of conducting local government elections over the years to enhance massive participation during the poll. SEE ALSO: Taraba APC takes crisis to Buni-led caretaker committee While commending the leadership of BCOS for adding value to various communities through its lofty programmes, Olagunju reiterated the commitment of the commission to conduct a transparent election that citizens of the state would be proud of.
He, however, sought the support of relevant stakeholders in the electoral processes, with a view to achieving a hitch-free local government election. In his remarks, the Chairman, Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS), Dotun Oyelade, expressed confidence in the leadership of the commission considering the track record of the members. Oyelade, who frowned at the happenings during the last local government election in the state, assured the team of maximum support of the corporation towards a successful poll.
“We do not envisage probably there will be any challenge concerning the mandate which His Excellency gave to you, which is to principally conduct a free, fair election that will be acceptable to all. “We don’t envisage any challenge from your team because you as the leader did not have political colourations which you will not start now. On our part at Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State, we are privileged to have you here as the first point of call. Our doors are not closed for anything you might be needed from us,” Oyelade said.