 A group under the aegis of Concerned Citizens of Edo State and in the Diaspora (COCED) on Tuesday appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to support the re-election of Governor Godwin Obaseki for a second term in the September 19 governorship election in the state. Israel Ade’dunia, president of the group who made the appeal at a press conference in Benin City, said that the re-election of the governor for a second term will ensure the continuation of the ongoing good governance in the state. Ade’dunia, however, advised the people of the state not to be afraid, to allow gun-toting men to intimidate and disenfranchise them during the governorship as it happened in Ekiti, Osun, Kogi, and other places. While urging registered voters to come out en masse and vote for the re-election of the governor, he assured that the election shall be peaceful and that no single soul shall be lost. “Let President Muhammadu Buhari support the good governance of Obaseki in the fear of God Almighty ( Allah). Let Nigerians be able for once, get it right and conduct elections without violence and loss of life. Let peace pervade Edo State during and after the election. Let God-fearing good governance prevail in the midst of disturbing discordance,” he said. SEE ALSO: Why FG must implement reciprocity policy on international flights “I call on the people of Edo State not to be afraid. Gun-toting men should not intimidate the people and disenfranchise them as it happened in Ekiti, Osun and other places. Come out and vote on September 19, 2020. No single soul shall be lost. It shall be peaceful. It shall be well with us. God bless our God-sent Governor Godwin Obaseki (GGGO), a.k.a ‘Wake and See’. “I am calling on all these agents of provocateur therefore, to sheath their swords and let good governance reign. Let the waters of good governance flow. Let it flow from Edo State in pools to other states and engulf Nigeria,” he further said. According to Ade’dunia, “We encourage him to continue to be on the side of the people in his second tenure. This is because, whether you are a president, governor, minister, senator, member of the house, policeman, military man, INEC chairman, chairman of a local government or councillor, civil servant, clergyman, etc. at the end of your life, it will not be you and them, but you and your Creator.” He explained that in the last few months Edo State had witnessed, and still witnessing political crisis orchestrated by some evil-intentioned minds to truncate the governor’s existing good governance. He also alleged that those who are not happy with the governor’s developmental strides across the state want to be godfathers at all costs so that they can always take the lion share of the state’s resources and allocation.