 Peter Adewale Obadare, a popular cybersecurity thought leader, has been appointed as the chairman, Advisory Board of Cybersafe Foundation. The non-governmental organisation says it’s on a mission to facilitate pockets of change that ensure a safer internet for everyone with digital access and residents in Nigeria. In this role, Obadare will oversee the activities of the board and all sub committees as set in the foundation’s corporate governance manual. Obadare who doubles as the co-founder and chief operating officer of Digital Encode Limited, is a seasoned PAN-African CyberSecurity & GRC thought leader; a Fellow of the British Computer Society (FBCS); Fellow Institute of Management Consultants (FIMC); Fellow, Institute of Information Management (FIIM); Fellow Institute of Brand Management (FIBM); Chartered Information Technology Professional (CITP); the First PECB Certified Data Protection Officer (CDPO) in Nigeria; the First Ec-Council Licensed Penetration Tester (LPT) in Africa; First Ec-Council Certified BlockChain in Africa; second COBIT 5 Certified Assessor in Africa Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard Qualified Security Assessor (PCI DSS QSA), amongst others. The cyber security expert and GRC technopreneur with over 50 international professional certifications to his credit and was awarded Honorarary Doctorate Degree in Cybersecurity from Trinity International University of Ambassadors Atlanta Georgia, United State of America. Obadare is a well-recognised subject matter expert with numerous successful engagements to his credit in Africa. Commenting on the appointment, Confidence Staveley the founder/executive director, Cybersafe Foundation, a recepient of Top 50 Cybersecurity Women in Africa, said that as they aspire to become very successful and impactful organisation, the foundation recognises need to tap from the knowledge, experience and insight Obadare brings, to enable them attain unprecedented new heights. “We are excited to welcome a seasoned cybersecurity leader, Obadare as the chairman of our advisory board. His personal values such as passion, excellence, service and integrity align perfectly with that of CyberSafe Foundation. “We believe his knowledge, experience and insight, will catalyse attainment of unprecedented heights in our pursuit to enabling a safe cyberspace for Nigeria and in extension, Africa. There could be no better time to have such a valuable, passionate and expert leader for our advisory board,” she said. The board is responsible for creating vision for the Foundation, articulating its values and principles, setting goals, developing effective governance policy, meeting and monitoring standards.