 The All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ondo state has appealed to the eligible voters in the state to see Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu as a man of dependable character, who has acquired further experience to pursue, and ensure speedy implementation of more enduring development projects in his second term. The party through its state Publicity Secretary, Alex Kalejaye, in a statement made available to BusinessDay in Akure on Sunday said the opposition parties, particularly the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), are worried that it is impossible to confuse the people on the performance of the APC candidate, Akeredolu because the facts are glaring. According to Kalejaye, the toga of performance and integrity on the APC flag bearer cause constant fears, and thus result in cheap blackmail, spurious allegations and needless verbal attacks, all on the account of intimidation. The statement reads further, “the major roads rehabilitated, or initiated are sources of delight to the people who view Akeredolu as a leader that is passionate about the development of the land, and the wellbeing of the people. “The opposition parties are equally helpless about the genuine efforts to create employment for the youths through building of infrastructures, industries and agriculture. These have kept many engaged and productive. “The candidate of the APC presided over the affairs of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) without blemish, but garnered more respect and accolades for being a prudent and productive president of the revered association. “A unique character of Akeredolu, which is in the public domain, is that he doesn’t have regards for deception; the thriving business of the PDP and ZLP. Either by training or personal conviction, he says exactly what he would do, and has promised more development efforts if re-elected. “This has deflated the only campaign argument of the desperate power-seekers that, “Governors performance drops when given second term.”