 The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu and the convener of the Ayombo Movement for Good Governance, and 2018 Osun state governorship aspirant under the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ayoade Adewopo have congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki on his re-election by the people of Edo state. Obaseki of the PDP was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He polled 307,955 votes in Saturday’s governorship election to defeat his closest rival, Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who scored 223,619 votes. While Obaseki, who is the incumbent governor of Edo State, won in 13 local government areas to secure his reelection for another term, Ize Iyamu won in 5 local government areas. Elumelu in a statement on Sunday described Obaseki’s re-election as well-deserved judging by his good performance in developing the state and empowering the people during his first tenure. The Delta- born lawmaker also lauded the people of Edo state for their courage in coming out in large numbers not only to vote but also to protect their votes and monitor the process to the end. He also applauded all the PDP stakeholders especially Chairman of the South South PDP Governors Forum, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta state; Rivers state Governor Nyesom Wike and the Chairman of PDP National Campaign Council, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state, as well as other PDP governors for their tireless efforts to ensure success in the polls. Elumelu called on Governor Obaseki to continue to provide good governance for the people of Edo state, which was the basis of his incontestable victory in the election. In the same vein, Adewopo in a statement on Sunday said “This election was one of the most competitive in our country’s history. However, once again, the people of Edo have demonstrated their commitment to democracy by voting in a largely peaceful process. “I am confident that under your renewed leadership, Edo’s leading role in advancing the values and principles of democracy continue to be strengthened.” “It is my sincere wish that Edo, under your leadership, will maintain political stability and integration, and achieve economic prosperity just like other states governed by PDP Governors.” “Please accept my very best wishes for a successful tenure of office and my personal regards.”