 Betacar.ng, a Nigerian autotech company specifically created to sell used cars in good condition, has totally transformed the way second hand car purchases were formally conducted, and has built more confidence in buyers who can now track history and records of the vehicles before purchasing. On its integrated e-commerce platform, which was launched in August 2019, customers can start the car buying journey online on the website betacar.ng to search and learn about the variety of car options, and the physical car store that allows customers to test drive and validate preference for their chosen car. Lou Odunuga, CEO of Betacar said that; “So much has been achieved in one year since the launch, and we have recorded exciting growth in customer base. Betacar.ng has raised the bar in the Nigerian automotive industry. Providing car buyers with quality, transparency, and instalment payment options to improve affordability. We are most excited about the reception of customers to all our products and innovative services.” On its innovations, Betacar provides a warranty on all cars sold on the platform. This is unique in the Nigerian used car market and it’s a great step forward by the company. This gives customers full peace of mind when buying cars from Betacar.ng platform. Other innovations by Betacar for the local market include- 200-points vehicle quality checks on every car, and providing customers access to car history reports for transparency. The website also features Betacar Financing, a fintech product that allows salary earners and structured business owners to buy quality certified Tokunbo cars and pay over a period of 12-24 months. Ifeoluwa Dare-Johnson, the marketing manager, Betacar.ng, said that; “To commemorate the first anniversary of Betacar.ng, customers who purchase their car from us in September 2020 will receive one-month worth of fuel for free. Nigerians deserve the best of both worlds, quality certified cars that give peace of mind, and affordability through low prices and car financing options.”