 The Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of attacking his campaign office. Ajayi, the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), in the October 10 gubernatorial election, made the allegation in a statement made available to journalists in Akure. The deputy governor, who spoke through his campaign Director General, Kola Ademujimi alleged that his party secretariat was attacked on Tuesday by some thugs loyal to APC. He said the political thugs loyal to the APC, who were five in number, according to security personnel attached to the Secretariat, destroyed Ajayi’s billboards and other valuables at the premises on Tuesday night at Ile-Oluji. He also said the suspected thugs shot sporadically into the air to scare the security guards from challenging them. Ademujimi said: “Akeredolu’s thugs are threatening the lives and property of members of ZLP and those of other parties in various parts of the state. “They destroyed chairs, tables and inflicted injuries on our supporters at their ward meeting in Ile-Oluji yesterday. They also destroyed Agboola Ajayi’s ‘s billboards at our campaign office in Akure. They destroyed our flags and posters in Idanre during Aketi/APC’s campaign tour of Idanre yesterday. “They attacked leaders of another party during their local government meeting in Owo yesterday. I think they are out to cause mayhem even before the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State.” Ademujimi, however, called on security agencies to live up to expectation before the opposition parties are forced to act in self defence. But, in a swift reaction, Richard Olatunde, spokesperson for Akeredolu/Aiyedatiwa campaign organisation, in a statement sent to BusinessDay on the accusation said: “ZLP is merely looking for attention. As you can see, there is nobody that is talking about them in the state. Their political popularity has refused to grow. It’s a rejected party with no political structure. “In fact, we have it on good authority that they orchestrate attack on themselves just to drag us into issues with them. We are not ready to join issues with a party that has been rejected by the people of Ondo State. “It’s illogical for anyone to say that the APC would attack the secretariat of a party that has no impact or pose any threat to the chances of the APC and Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) in this election.” According to Olatunde, “This election is about the people of Ondo State. The Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu administration has done well for the people of Ondo State. The acceptability he enjoys across the state has been further manifested in the way and manner the people thronged his campaign rallies. We are confident of victory because the people are with us. “We must also put on record that ZLP thugs shot all night in Idanre on Monday night, and went ahead to destroy all APC billboards and banners just to scare the people of Idanre from coming out to attend the Tuesday local government campaign rally of Governor Akeredolu and the APC. “But, with what we witnessed in Idanre on Tuesday, it’s evident that the boom of the gun can never deter and scare a determined people. The people have shown that guns and machetes will be useless in this election. Our People will always triumph. “We must make it clear that we are sure of victory. We carry the crown and we are guiding it jealously. We will not engage in any act of violence. We have the people, and the people are our strength.”