 Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Monday, dissolved the Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council for the September 19 governorship election, lauding the council’s dedication to duty, which he said accounted for the election victory. Obaseki, who announced the action at a meeting with members of the state campaign council at Government House in Benin City, Edo State capital, thanked the members for a job well done and described them as miracle workers. “You are all miracle workers as far as this election is concerned. If you sit back and reflect on our journey so far, the time, resources and the victory that was finally achieved, you will agree with me that all those who contributed to the achievement are all miracle workers,” Obaseki said. “I joined the PDP less than 100 days ago, put together this team and everyone went to work and got the result because we were all committed to our job. We moved around the 192 wards across the state and I am not surprised at the result we have achieved. READ ALSO: Ondo guber will test Buhari&#8217;s commitment to free, fair election – PDP “This meeting was organised first to thank you all for your effort and to formally dissolve the campaign council now that we have gotten the victory in the just-concluded governorship election in Edo State. I also urge you to try and document what happened because we have made history,” he said. He urged leaders of the party at the district level to get reports on the outcome of the election. “It is important because the commitment was made and those commitments have to be enshrined in the policies in moving Edo State forward in the next four years. “It is important we document what we have promised. Political parties help in driving policies of the government, as the foundation of the party is at the ward level. I urge the party leaders to participate at the ward level. “We have so much to do between now and the day of inauguration. The country and the world are watching Edo. They want to see how we will manage our victory and what we would do with it. The expectations of Edo people are at an all-time high and we have no choice but to deliver. “What I can promise the people is that I will provide the leadership and I will be fair, objective and transparent in dealing with issues,” Obaseki said. He urged the leaders of the party to join him in building the party at the state and at regional levels in resuscitating the South-South regional integration bloc of Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross-Rivers, Edo and Delta States (BRACED) Commission. The governor maintained that the resuscitation of the BRACED Commission will help the region wrestle the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and bring more of the resources to ensure the development of the South-South. “We have to take our fate in our hands in paying salaries without borrowing,” he said. The PDP national vice-chairman (South-South) and chairman of the state campaign council, Dan Orbih, thanked members of the council for the stamina displayed in navigating through the tough terrain of the 192 wards in the state. “We thank Edo people for the votes and the governor for the confidence in the council,” Orbih said. Edo State chairman of the PDP, Tony Aziegbemi, called on members of the party to be more united now, more than ever, urging members never to work on the downfall of others.