Martin Onovo, a former presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party ( NCP), has said that the 2023 general election in Nigeria would be no different from 2019 general election unless it is not going to be supervised by President Muhammadu Buhari. He also supported the agitation for the zoning of the presidency to Southern Nigeria in 2023, saying that it is the turn of the Igbo to rule the country. Onovo, who contested the presidential election in 2015, said democracy was about justice, equity and representation which necessitated that every group should be treated fairly, while stressing that campaign for the 2023 general election may be too early. Since the advent of the Fourth Republic in 1999, there has been a rotation of the presidency between the South and the North in Nigeria. The arrangement was practised during the 16 years the PDP ruled the country; although it is not constitutional. Based on the arrangement, it is expected that power would shift to the South in 2023 after the incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), a northerner, who assumed office in 2015, must have concluded the constitutional two terms in office. Read also: Third-term agenda: Buhari will not tamper with the Constitution- Tinubu However, speaking in an interview with Businessday Tuesday, Onovo said the continued focus on 2023 election rather than governance was caused by the ruling party’s nonchalant attitude. “My view is that democracy requires representation, fairness and justice and that representation at the highest level requires that Nigeria zones the presidency to the Southeast. But it is too early to discuss 2023 and you don’t jump the gun. “That time table from INEC may not happen until 2022, it is the general ambience of lawlessness caused by the ruling party that has caused this situation,” Onovo said. Speaking further, the former presidential candidate, said the 2023 presidential election may not hold or make any meaningful change if the current status quo remains. He predicted that the electoral process would be hijacked, while the election result manipulated by members of the cabals in the presidency in 2023 if the current administration still remains in office till then. “There would be no 2023 from my point of view. From elections held in 2019, was there such high number of accredited voters in Borno State as presented by INEC?? If you believe that you believe anything; if Buhari is in office in 2023, then 2019 would repeat. If Buhari is out of office, then there would be major political adjustment. “There would be major changes in 2023; idle people can continue to scheme for 2023, which would not exist. Did election count in 2019?” he said. Onovo however, supported the agitation for the amendment of the constitution and the Electoral Act, but added that there was no point amending the Act if it would not be followed.