National leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, on Monday, said President Muhammadu Buhari has no plans to tinker with the country’s 1999 Constitution ( as amended) to create room for the much speculated third agenda. The APC National leaders stated this while speaking with State House Correspondents after meeting behind closed doors with President Muhammmadu Buhari, at the presidential villa, Abuja. Tinubu had while also responding to questions, berated those lobbying for the 2023 Presidential ticket of the APC, saying it is a sign of restlessness, even as he described such actions as coming too early. “It is a sign of restlessness. It is too early to be scheming for 2023 presidential election at this time” He also berated those agitating for the zoning of the 2023 presidency to any particular region, as people who do not have interest of the development of the nation at heart. Speaking on the speculated third term agenda of President Buhari, Tinubu noted that “ Any reasonable politician, who had worked with President Muhammadu Buhari will know that he will not (tamper with the Constitution)” He however added that “detractors are always suspicious and will make accusations, but I was in the trench, in the struggle for democracy” Human Rights Lawyer and activist, Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria had persistently hinted of some underground subtle moves by political jobbers and Buhari’s loyalists to convince Nigerians to back a third term for President Buhari But Tinubu in his defence of the in the President, said he was in trenches and in the opposition with Muhammadu Buhari, till the Third Term agenda of a former leader of this country failed, in an apparent reference to the botched third term attempt by former President Olusegun Obasanjo In 2007. “I know he will never. He has the courage and the character to refuse such a temptation even if offered to him. I believe in him and I believe Nigerians should also believe in him. “He doesn’t need to say it to me, I’ll argue it in the corner and everywhere they bring such a thing up. However, it’s very good to hear it from him. I say congratulations to a man of character and integrity. The challenge of turning the ship of this nation around is a continuum and a continuous effort and that is what we should get ourselves concerned with. “Yes, politics is intoxicating, it’s flamboyant, it’s interesting, but we cannot continue in perpetuity one after the other, we have to relax, show concern for the people of the country and see to the efforts of the President that will manifest in the new, united and prosperous country. We are still not there. Tinubu while speaking further on the agitations on who succeeds Buhari in 2023, Tinubu said it was too early
“ The time is not now. We have just finished one election and Mr President is busy sorting out the Budget, working for the people of this country. “Of course, restlessness of politics is going to be there, but any lover of this country will not talk about the succession plan yet. That’s the truth. Concentrate on working for the country, help the President to help the country. There’s nothing more than that.
“We cannot use 365 days in a year and 360° to work on politics, it’s not possible. Anybody talking about that now is just completely restless and not focused on the agenda of nation building and development of our country. Tinubu noted that despite showing concern about the country’s security situation and understanding of the economy, there are however still challenges, but added that “ It is a work in progress, you’ll have to continue to work on it and make it better for the common man” he said.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja