Merry Christmas, dear reader, on this Boxing Day. It is exciting to converse with you as one of those lucky to see this day and the coming end of the tough year 2019. December 26 has additional significance for me beyond the sharing of gifts in the received tradition. December 26 is Umuode Day, the day my community of Umuode Nsulu, Ikenna community in Isiala Ngwa North LGA gathers for brotherly conversations with a focus on bonding, development and reconciliation. It is the season of obinwanne in Ala Igbo. Brotherly love is the philosophical underpinning of all that the Igbo do throughout this period. Love actuates the travels across the world to unite with kith and kin for a few days. Love makes the stresses and strains of that journey bearable and worthwhile. Wherever we are, whether in the homeland or in the local and international diaspora, obinwanne is the rhythm of our hearts. During this period of obinwanne, also known as Christmas and End-of-the-year celebrations, Ndigbo dream new dreams communally. They launch development projects in the land of self-help: schools, town halls, clinics and hospitals, and sundry medical and other missions. In recent times, this is also the season for commissioning of ambitious projects in the areas of infrastructure: roads, bridges and similar high-impact and high cost projects. Most would be sponsored by the akajiakus of the community or by associations and groups who taxed themselves. Obinwanne is a powerful force. It is the spirit of One Love that Keeps Us Together. Obinwanne is uplifting. It is redemptive. It unifies and brings out the best in each man and the community. As we come to the end of a decade and prepare for another, Obinwanne calls Ndigbo to higher standards in doing what they do. There are two dimensions to the new paradigm. Ndigbo must review the self-help that translates to the abdication of responsibility by their governments. We must stop the self-help that means citizens pay no heed to what elected public officials do. Citizen indifference explains the outrage that is the handling of NNDC projects in Abia State. Indigenous contractors connived with officials of the intervention agency to rape our people violently. They stole root and branch. They signed for projects, collected the funds, did NOTHING but wrote in the books various degrees of completion, some as bold as claiming 100 per cent. Whether it is the local or state government, we should aim higher than the grading of the earth surface. We should add at least a stone base. No, we should go all the way and tar those roads. They had no spirit of obinwanne, the idea that it is a high trust to take charge of projects for the entire community. We need to redirect the sense of community in our communities to one that holds our public officers accountable and responsible. For too long, Igboland has suffered the shortage of facilities and the preponderance of low standards because of this indifference. Instead, the wicked persons in charge deployed marginalisation and federal prejudice against the South East as a handy excuse. Enough of all that. Whether public or private, we really should raise the bar for infrastructure and other projects in Ala Igbo. I observed this in a note to my kindred recently. It is the season of goodwill and excellent cheer, so I join in extolling those of our public officials and philanthropists who are doing road projects in various parts of Igboland. Citizens have hailed these efforts on social media platforms. Closer inspection, however, shows that most of the roads receiving all the acclaim are mere earth roads. The praise is for grading the roads to smoothen the surface. Grading does not add much beyond that. We thank those who are moving the needle. These kinds of roads were what the old DFFRI offered our people more than 30 years ago. We lamented the decline from the pioneering work of a son of Ngwaland the Honourable Ururuka who gave us the macadam named after him. It lasted for at least 25 years in good condition. Earth roads represent the first level in road works. We can and should do better at this age. We really should not be dancing backwards in our developmental journey. Whether it is the local or state government, we should aim higher than the grading of the earth surface. We should add at least a stone base. No, we should go all the way and tar those roads. The macadams that the Abia State Government have done in parts of Isiala Ngwa North speak eloquently for the need to maintain that standard. Let us not go below it. On this score, our people hold out much hope concerning the Commissioner for Works Barr. Bob Chiedozie Ogu. Many believe that in Barr Ogu, we might have another Ururuka. What great expectation. Ogu has the discipline, commitment, knowledge and exposure to deliver better infrastructure in our land. I pray the Lord to lead him aright. The Nsulu Games Village project is an opportunity to make a statement of quality. It should be ambitious and be a project that would attract commendations 30 years from now.  Please deliver a world-class project. Asphalt roads should be the minimum standard we should accept from the government as infrastructure projects. No one in the new decade should offer us sub-standard infrastructure. Chido Nwakanma