Technology today has sipped into every aspect of life. Not only is it rapidly changing the world, but also advancing towards making it a better place to live in. Constant development in technology has paved way to expand our outlook, leading to some ground breaking, life changing innovations. As we enter a new decade, the year 2020 promises to actualise more the the emerging technology that we have been introduced to in the last year or two. This is definitely the decade where big tech terms like cloud computing, nanotechnology, Fifth Generation (5G) communications, virtual reality, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Robotics will be fully actualized and deployed to totally transform different sectors and economies. In fact, Nigeria’s minister of communications and digital economy, Isa Ali Pantami has promised that Nigeria will explore all these emerging technologies in quantifiable terms. Illustrating the benefits of deployment of and access to 5G, Pantami said with 5G, which was test run in Nigeria towards the end of 2019 by MTN, Nigeria’s largest telecommunications service provider, virtual surgery is possible in Nigeria. The last decade (2010-2020) saw efforts being made to deepen broadband penetration levels as we moved swiftly from 2G to 3G and the 4G. It is safe to call the last 10 years, the decade of the smartphone. Original equipment manufacturers (OEMS) focused on creating devices with imputed biometric recognition technologies, enhanced camera operations and several optimized features; making smartphones more indispensable in both our private and work lives. We also a large penetration of smart watches, mobile software applications and the rise of financial technology (fintechs). The first mobile banking app appeared in 2011 and today, we have digital banks that do not operate any other way but online. However, with all these, saw a rise in cybercrime activities globally. The last decade also ushered in a new wave of social media frenzy. Although platforms such as Facebook and Twitter existed before 2010, they became much more than friendly chat platforms and began to create job opportunities with the creation of millions of social media businesses. Today, there are over 25 million business profiles using Instagram world wide, up from 15 million in 2017, and over 90 million small businesses on Facebook. In fact, a new job category of ‘Social Media Influencer’ has been created for people with millions of followers on platforms like Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter and Facebook, and these people get paid to promote or market product to the millions of eyeballs on their social media pages. Now, to what we should expect to see in the new decade, according to global tech experts and enthusiasts. Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 