The HUAWEI Y9s equipped with an Ultra-wide angle 48MP AI Triple Camera to deliver outstanding photography is now available for sale in the Nigerian market and featured quite popularly on the Christmas gift list of so many gadget lovers. With the increase of dependence on modern technology, it’s no surprise that smartphones and various accessories top everyone’s wish lists, but here is why we think the HUAWEI Y9s became one the most valud gift items last Christmas. 1.         Perfect for picture lovers; With a 48MP Triple AI Camera, is the ultimate go-to smartphone camera for people that can’t do without taking photos and recording videos to capture every moment at its best. Not only is taking pictures really easy, the results are so satisfying that you won’t need to take a second shot. The camera setup, consisting of a 48MP main camera, 8MP 120 degree Ultra-Wide camera and a 2MP Depth sensor, also uses powerful AI that recognizes what you are trying to take a picture of, making sure every shot is perfect. 2.          A hidden pop up camera for the best selfies Want to take selfies, but notice something is missing? The HUAWEI Y9s has its powerful 16MP AI Selfie camera hidden in the top edge of the phone. Open your camera, switch on selfie mode and watch the little camera pop up automatically. Don’t be fooled by its size though, the 16MP AI Selfie Camera packs quite a punch. Capable of taking beautiful selfies, even in difficult lighting thanks to AI Backlit Imaging, this selfie camera punches well above its weight. 3.         Stylish design that gets all the attention. With the front camera tucked away into the top edge, the HUAWEI Y9s enjoys no bezels or notches which means you can enjoy 6.59 inches of uninterrupted FHD+ display for watching movies, play games, browsing online shopping lists and doing a lot more. Thanks to maximized viewing ratio, your viewing experience is now more immersive, making sure you don’t miss even the tiniest details. 4.         Powerful hardware for the all-day user Gamer, avid social media user or even just someone who depends on the smartphone all day, the HUAWEI Y9s is the perfect gift. Thanks to its powerful hardware like the Kirin 710F, EMUI 9.1 and GPU Turbo 3.0, performance levels are boosted without tasking the 4000 mAh battery. Additionally, you also get 6GB of RAM with 128GB of storage for all your photos, videos and more. If 128GB is not enough, then you can always expand to 512GB via a microSD card.