As the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) crisis remains unabated, the factional leadership of the party has accused Adams Oshiomhole, the national chairman of the party of working against the peace move by the Oba of Benin. The factional state publicity secretary of the party, Joseph Osagiede, who spoke with newsmen at the party’s secretariat in Benin City yesterday, alleged that the former governor of the state, Oshiomhole, truncated the Oba’s peace move. According to him, the APC crisis in Edo state is gradually coming to an end because we know that Edo People’s Movement (EPM) is already folding up and also its members are reaching out to us that they want to come back home. “I believe that the national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole will also learn some lessons for what is going on because for Oba of Benin, Ewuare ll, to have led Benin traditional council to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari last year on this matter, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to still be harbouring these dissidents, forming EPM and still supporting them, he is working against the wish of Oba. Read also: Benin Disco to partner embedded power generation companies “Once Oba has expressed a wish about anything it becomes a command to us all in Edo State. So, the Oba’s wish is a command that there should be peace on this imbroglio. “Recently, the Oba also in a meeting with Edo State council of traditional rulers and chiefs announced that we should go into prayers and fasting to avoid calamity this year all because of this political imbroglio. “Any wise man, any wise leader, any wise political chairman that knows that he is directly responsible for all this crisis should take a cue from such statement made by the Oba by calling the governor to meet with the monarch and says ‘Baba we have reconciled and that we don’t want crisis in the state any longer’. That is how you will know a child that is well brought up,” he said. He also disclosed that the Governor Obaseki-led faction of the party rejected the Senate President Ahmed Lawan- led reconciliation committee set up by the national leadership of the party to resolve the crisis in the state. He called for the setting up of a reconciliatory committee to be set up by a neutral body like the President and Benin monarch. Reacting to the allegation that Adams Oshiomhole worked against the wish of Oba of Benin, Chris Azebamwen, the suspended publicity secretary of the party, described the allegation as baseless and unfounded.