The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum on Tuesday denied that one of its members, Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State is involved in anti-party activities as recently alleged in some quarters, saying the fabricators of the information are envious of the governor over 2023 presidency. There was circulated online reports that Umahi belonged to both the PDP and the All Progressives Congress (APC). But the PDP governors in a statement issued in Abuja and signed by the DirectorGeneral of the forum, Earl Osaro Onaiwu, condemned the report and said it was blatant falsehood orchestrated to denigrate the image of the Ebony State governor. The governors noted that those circulating the fake news are simply envious of the track records and projects that the governor has so far achieved in Ebonyi State. However, they insisted that Governor Umahi has the constitutional right to contest for whatever office in the land after he would have left the governorship seat in 2023. “The news circulating online that our dear membergovernor, H.E. Engr. David Nweze Umahi of Ebonyi State said he belongs to both the PDP and APC is a blatant falsehood aimed at tarnishing the image of the governor and as well derailing him from his focus. The author of that publication acted in bad fate, with malice and certainly with ulterior and sinister motives. “On several occasions and at all times even in the face of stiff opposition and blackmail, Gov. Umahi has always proven to be a committed party man. He loves the party; he loves the PDP Governors Forum, and they in turn love and cherish the friendship and bond between them. “It is therefore, no gainsaying that all these are about 2023, but may we hasten to add that there are more civilised and cultured ways to go about it. “Yes, he like every other key-player in the political arena, may have his ambitions and dreams upon the end of his current service tenure in 2023; he may aspire for any of the offices at the Presidential Villa, which of course he is constitutionally fit and qualified for, but that will certainly be on the platform of the PDP. Read also: 2023 presidency responsible for Gov Umahi&#8217;s alleged anti-party activities, says PDP “We have enough reasons and instances to believe that he may have been quoted out of context in the now-viral online publication. We smell mischief. “We see the handiwork of detractors who are too scared of his credentials and constantly growing legacies so far attained in governance in Ebonyi State.” According to the statement, the Forum further said: “We perceive falsehood from the pit of hell taken too far by those who are envious of the numerous gigantic projects his administration is handling; detractors who hate the fact that in the past four, going to five years, Ebonyi State has now become a huge construction site for infrastructural development, too numerous to mention. “Finally, we wish to emphatically state that Governor Umahi is 100percent and above dedicated to the People’s Democratic Party. We can boldly say that he has never and will never indulge in the profanity of playing double standards, not with a party like PDP which he holds dear to his heart.”