 The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF) of Nigeria has voiced its support for the statement of the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah, on the state of the nation, saying that it was shocked by the criticism that has trailed the cleric’s message. The group faulted the response of the presidency and the Northern Elders Forum, advising them to rather listen to the content of the message. Kukah had in his 2020 Christmas Message said President Muhammadu Buhari was presiding over a country with prospects of a failed state. He also said that there was no way any non-Northern Muslim president could have done a fraction of what President Buhari had done by his nepotism and got away with it, adding that there would have been a military coup or war. READ ALSO: No place for sole administrator in NDDC Act, Delta monarch tells FG However, responding shortly, the Federal Government said it was graceless and impious for any religious leader to use the period of Christmas, which is a season of peace, to stoke the embers of hatred, sectarian strife and national disunity. It also said calling for a violent overthrow of a democratically elected government was not what a religious leader should engage in. But in the statement, Monday evening titled “You cannot suppress the voice of reason”, the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum condemned the reaction of the Federal Government to Kukah’s message. The Forum, in the statement signed by its leaders, Yinka Odumakin (South-West), Guy Ikoku (South-East), Bassey Henshaw (South-South) and Isuwa Dogo (Middle Belt), said the attack on the cleric by the Federal Government was not necessary because Kukah had expressed views that favoured them in the past which they welcomed, stressing that the country was in a perilous state which can only be overcome if it was restructured. “The leadership of the Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt Forum notes with very serious concern and condemnation the outbursts of the Presidency and the Northern Elders Forum over the Christmas Day Message of the revered Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Mathew Hassan Kukah,” the statement said. “The outspoken cleric, who has been a beacon of truthfulness over the years, remains a foremost defender of the aspirations of millions of Nigerians across ethnic and religious lines. On this occasion, his comments have been applauded by the majority of Nigerians and we all stand with him. “We want to remind the Federal Government and its attack dogs that in the past, they had equally welcomed the forthright views of this Man of God even though it favoured them. “So why attack him now when he cautions them on their divisive policies? Today, the country has become terribly divided along with all kinds of lines. “It is shameful and indefensible that suddenly, the Federal Government is dominated by one small ethnic group and they expect all to keep quiet like slaves. Also, the wind of insecurity is now almost tsunami and even up to the president’s doorstep in Katsina when he was home recently on holiday. “What we expected was for those concerned to retrace their very unhelpful steps and get back to rekindling oneness in the country. We once more can call on the Federal Government to take urgent steps to restructure the country. “Finally, we remind those concerned that the voice of truth and reason can never be suppressed successfully. Bishop Kukah remains a national icon, a hero of the masses. We, therefore, demand an immediate apology to him for the baseless attacks,” the Forum said.