 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its leaders are bitter over the sterling performance of governors elected on the platform of the PDP, which has further endeared Nigerians to our party The PDP said that the APC structures had become discomfited by the stability and unanimity in the PDP as well as the resilience of its leaders, despite the attempts by the APC and its government to plant seeds of discord in their fold. The party said Nigerians were watching as the APC had now resorted to vicious smear campaign and media attacks on its governors and leaders, having failed in all their sneaky plots to lure them. ‘It is therefore not strange to us that the Secretary of APC’s illegal national caretaker committee, Senator James Akpanudoedehe, has been detailed, as new APC spokesperson, to commence a coordinated attack on our governors. “We are aware that this is part of the desperate bid to distract and drag down our performing governors to the level of their APC counterparts, who have become a collective symbol of failure in our contemporary political history. “It is laughable that the APC caretaker secretary is challenging the Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, to name APC leaders attempting to lure our governors, whereas he, Akpanudoedehe, is aware of how the APC leadership, to which he belongs, have been going round our governors and leaders genuflecting for audience, only to receive mere photo opportunities. “We caution the APC caretaker secretary to be more circumspect in challenging anybody to call out names, as such could put him in very indefensible situation as his own roles and itinerary in the APC leadership are not hidden to us,” the PDP said in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. The PDP said there was nothing left in APC to attract anybody as the party was plagued plagued with internal wrangling and illegal leadership, and turned the nation to a failed state. The statement added, “It is on record that our governors have shown capacity and deliverables in projects and programmes in all critical sectors including human capital development, manufacturing, industrialization, road infrastructure, agriculture, healthcare, education, housing, aviation, power, telecommunication, water resources, urban and rural development among others, to the shame of the APC. “It is therefore imperative to state that our governors, by all rating and ramifications, cannot be in the same class with non-performing APC governors. “In that regard, we counsel the APC Caretaker, as the new undertakers of the APC to steer clear of our party and concentrate on their task of winding down the APC, which it began with the collapse of their structures nationwide. “After that, the APC caretaker committee should be ready to answer and restitute for all atrocities committed by the APC against our nation.”