 The Experience, an annual musical event which usually holds in Lagos and attracts people of different tribes and religion has come to stay and in 15 years, has grown in leaps and bound to become the world’s largest gospel concerts. This year’s edition was held on Friday, 11th December 2020 exclusively in a virtual format. The outbreak of Covid-19 early in 2020 had disrupted a lot of physical gatherings. Social distancing which was one of the measures that would flatten the curve and limit the spread of the pandemic would lead to the closing of borders, prohibition of large public gatherings and other measures. Sporting events such as the Olympic games, the European Football championship were canceled. International conferences, music and film festivals were also not left out. Over the past couple of months, the world has been able to shift into a virtual reality. Technology has been heavily deployed for meetings and conferences in replacement of physical meetings. Pastor Paul Adefarasin and the team behind arguably the biggest gospel music event anywhere in the world have been known to deliver a concert of world-class standard and top-notch planning and execution and it’s expected that as this year’s edition is beamed across the world in a virtual edition, it would indeed create a template that would show the world how concerts should be in the post COVID-19 reality. The lineup of renowned musicians and award winning artists is an indication of how wonderful the experience was. Don Moen, Nathaniel Bassey, Travis Greene, The Planetshakers, Eben, Sinach, Donnie McClurkin, Chevelle Franklyn, Onos, Sonnie Badu, Eben, Tope Alabi, Mercy Chinwo, William McDowell, Ada, Nokwe the Poet and the host choir – The Lagos Metropolitan Gospel Choir. They were joined by Hillsong United, Tasha Cobbs Leonard, Maverick City, The Cape Town Philharmonic Choir, Sheldon Bangera from India, Matt Redman from the United Kingdom and Sidney Mohede from Indonesia who are all performing at The Experience for the first time. Perfect audio, colorful lighting, dynamic staging, explosive special effects, musical performances and multi-camera setups that may create an even more intimate experience than attending a show in person are what the organizers have assured in this 15th edition of The Experience. It is the right time for people of different creeds and nations to come together and provide something special for those doing their part and staying inside during these times. There’s never been a more critical time to entertain the world. Those that do so will create experiences and memories that will last forever.