 The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom has expressed disappointment over the recent appointment of Oboro Akpabio as an ambassador-designate from the state. It said Akpabio was not known to the state chapter of the party and might not even be an indigene of Akwa Ibom State. In a statement signed by the state publicity secretary of the party, Nkereuwem Enyongekere, it frowned  at President Muhammadu Buhari’s style of appointments from the state without recourse to the leadership of the party in the state. Enyongekere described as ‘extraneous’ appointments by the Federal Government which he said do not favour members of the party. He said the attitude of the Presidency as regards federal appointments could stall the party’s chances of making any impact in the state in the 2023 elections. The statement urged Buhari to reward genuine members of the party in Akwa Ibom who sacrificed their time and resources for the party. The party’s spokesman also said the chairman of the party, Ini Okopido had petitioned the Presidency on the issue, where he lamented that the President had yet to learn from the mistakes of his first term. “The State Chapter in the said letter lamented that even in the second term of the administration President Muhammadu Buhari which the party in  the state had expected to benefit from the robust relationship of 2019 elections and for obvious reasons that he will learn from the mistakes of his first term, but unfortunately, the news of every new appointment from Akwa Ibom state has been so nerve-wracking and disquieting to the members of APC in the state, “It is weakening the threshold of our party in the state as genuine members who have sacrificed their useful resources are completely cheated out.” “The letter underscores, among such political appointments is that of  Oboro Effiong Akpabio, ambassador-designate, as one of the persons the party is not very sure if he is from the state as he is unknown to the party and its members. “The letter noted if such trend is not discontinued, will surely discourage members from giving their best to make APC work in Akwa Ibom State and thereby hampering the build up towards 2023,” the statement reads The party stressed that for the purpose of robust relationship, the state chapter should be readily consulted by the Federal Government while making appointments to strengthen the base of loyalty by members. 