 Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State has commended the state House of Assembly for the quick passage of the revised 2020 appropriation bill. Diri had signed the initial budget of N242.1 billion into law in April, but this Monday sought a downward review to N183.1 billion at a citizens participatory budget session. A statement by Diri’s Acting Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah on Thursday said the request for review was the outcome of the citizens partipatory budget session, which was immediately sent to the assembly for consideration. While signing the revised bill into law on Wednesday evening in his office, Governor Diri noted the prompt attention given to it by the lawmakers. He said the bill was revised within two days, which he said was remarkable at a time the coronavirus pandemic was having an effect on private and governmental businesses. Diri added that activities of the executive, legislative and judicial arms of government would have been grounded and the goal of good governance without the passage of the appropriation bill. His words: “We have promised to work together in synergy to ensure development of our state and for the peace and security of our people. “It is based on this that I want to appreciate our state assembly for the expeditious passage of the revised 2020 appropriation bill. “We presented this bill in April this year. The fact is we could not generate much revenue due to COVID-19 even though the initial bill was reasonable. “Likewise, this revised budget is decent and I tell you, Mr Speaker, that this amount is not outrageous.” Earlier, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere, said he was elated to present the revised appropriation bill, which was given speedy passage because of its importance. He assured that the assembly would always work in harmony with the executive as such synergy is in the overall interest of the state and the people. Ingobere also commended members of the hallowed chambers for their commitment and immense contribution.