 Edo State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party says no fewer than 20,000 persons have so far defected to the party since the Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki joined the party. Obaseki had June 19, defected to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) after being disqualified from the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary election by the party’s screening committee. Tony Aziegbemi, who made the disclosure in a telephone interview with BusinessDay in Benin City said the decampees are from APC and other opposition parties in the state. He explained that opposition party members defect daily to the party across the 192 wards in the 18 local government areas. “The National Headquarters of our party gave us 20,000 membership cards before the primary election, but by this Saturday we would have exhausted the cards. “After the exhaustion of the membership cards next Saturday we will ask the national headquarters for additional 20,000. “Every day people are defecting in the various wards across the 18 local government areas in the state to PDP”he said. He expressed optimism that the party will leave no stone unturned in delivering the state for Governor Godwin Obaseki and his running mate, Philip Shaibu. While adding that the party and the governor are enjoying massive support from the electorate and the people of the state, he noted that 90 percent of the electorate are ready to return the governor to the government house during the September 19, 2020 governorship election. He also disclosed that the party is putting modalities in place to ensure that it does not breach the COVID-19 measures put in place by the Federal and the State Governments during the gubernatorial campaigns in the state. “Governor Godwin Obaseki and PDP are enjoying massive support from Edo people who are happy with the recent defection of Governor Godwin Obaseki from APC to PDP. “If not 95 percent but at least 90 percent of electorate in the state are with the governor, and PDP and are ready to vote for the governor”,he added.