 On Friday 3rd July 2020 an inauguration meeting was held between Black Swan Innovations AS (BSI-AS) and the key representatives of the imperial majesty Ooni of Ife (Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II),  Ajoyemi Olabisi Osunleye (AMBASSADOR of Ooni ile Ife to South America- Brazil) and Adeyinka Oduniyi (CEO OJAJA TV Consultant to Ooni of Ife on Media and Special duties). Black Swan Innovation AS Group had the chance of receiving the officially signed letter from the Ooni himself explaining his commitment to attending and supporting the Nigerian-Eastern European Business Summit & Expo (NEEBSE Skopje-2020 ) by accepting their invitation, as well as commending the endeavours of BSI for bring this summit to fruition. In support of the efforts of BSI-AS, he said “I accept to deliver a paper/speech on trade relations between Europe and Africa in line with history. It is an obvious fact that we (Africa and Europe) are related and the relationship has helped our people across board”. Upon delivery of this agreement letter,  Ajoyemi (Ambassador of the Ooni in Brazil) said “it is in the mind of Kabiyesi to support as much as possible the fight against the coronavirus and to continue to help in aiding solutions that will eventually defeat it so that this summit can commence as planned. It will be a fantastic opportunity for Nigeria to be recognised again for its talents. The group is said to have decided to work hand by hand and step by step with the Ooni and his team to ensure optimum success of the event and thereafter. It is in the interest of BSI-AS to globalise Africa and the summit NEEBSE is the stepping stone. The meeting concluded with comments from Oni Lanre, CEO of Black Swan Innovations AS Group, Nigeria. He said “On behalf of our President, Sami Sadiki, myself and the BSI team, we are very grateful to the Ooni for agreeing to join hands with us in order to make this summit a force. We do not take for granted his partnership with us and we will make sure that we reach the goal of connecting trade zones from country to country between Africa and the rest of the world. The Ooni of Ife is a fantastic representation of the substance that Africa has to offer and carries the heart of Nigeria in mind as the fuel for all of the great works that he does”. Further information about the summit can be found at www.bsi-as.com/neebse-2020/.  L-R: Ajoyemi Olabisi Osunleye (AMBASSADOR of Ooni ile Ife to South America- Brazil), Oni Lanre (CEO of Black Swan Innovations AS Group, Nigeria), Thelma Osadebay (CEO. Of Theseus London), Adeyinka Oduniyi (CEO OJAJA TV Consultant to Ooni of Ife on Media and Special duties). 