 Thirty-five registered political parties under the aegis of Coalition of Political Parties (CPP) on Friday endorsed the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. The 35 registered political parties, in conjunction with political parties recently de-registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), endorsed the second-term bid of the governor at a press conference in Benin City, the Edo State capital. The political parties hinged their decision on Governor Obaseki administration’s performance which cuts across all sectors of the state, particularly economic development, industrial revolution, workers’ welfare packages, among others. Collins Oreruan, Edo State chairman of Social Democratic Party (SDP) and CPP, said the 35 political parties in the state have collapsed their structures to massively support the electioneering campaign of the state governor. Oreruan advised other governorship candidates to withdraw and join hands with Obaseki to build on the foundation he has laid in his first tenure, promising to mobilise voters at the grassroots across the 192 wards for the governor’s victory at the poll. “Our support for Godwin Obaseki is total, cohesive, progressive and focused on a better life for the people of Edo State. “We resolved that instead of acting as individual entities, it will be more effective to support the governor as a block with our existing party structures across the state. “We shall synergise with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to mobilise the voters at the grassroots on the reasons why governor Godwin Obaseki should be returned as governor. “Our grassroots campaigns shall be issue-based, highlighting the visible projects and programs of GGO’s administration devoid of lies, false propaganda, insults and character assassination, unfounded unsubstantiated and bias political innuendos that breed hatred, malice, and violence,” he said. He listed some of the political parties to include Accord Party (AP), African Action Congress (AAC), African Democratic Party (ADP), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Action Democratic Party (ADP), Nigeria Rescue Movement (NRM), Kowa Party, (KOWA), Social Democratic Party (SDP), United Peoples Party (UPP), among others. Also speaking, the PDP deputy state chairman, Harrison Omagbon, commended members of the CPP for the endorsement. He stated that the PDP picked Governor Godwin Obaseki as its candidate because of his developmental strides in the state. He expressed optimism that the governor would do more if elected for second term. “This is a marriage of convenience to ensure victory for our governorship candidate,” he added.