 The Agro-Processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support, APPEALS, Kogi State chapter has earmarked N633 million for agricultural value chain investments in the state. The state has also commenced the free distribution of agro-allied incentives for smallholder farmers in Kogi State. Sani Ozomata , the state coordinator of the programme who disclosed this during the flag-off scheme in some communities in Lokoja recently said that about 697 rice farmers will benefit from the initiative. Ozomata also pointed out that N633 million has been earmarked to benefit rice farmers who are spread over a 1780 hectares of land across the state. He added that the current period of the farming season is the right time to reach out to farmers but lamented that the COVID-19 pandemic will make them to redouble their efforts to make sure that farmers return to their farmlands while ensuring food. “APPEALS project had development objectives of enhancing small and medium scale farmers and also support their value addition. We have identified the real farmers, mapped out their land and we want them to take advantage of this grant to support their farming,” he said. “APPEALS in Kogi state is taking the lead because we want to make sure that farm inputs get to the farmers at the right time,” he further said. He added that the project will ensure prompt delivery of the incentives to farmers, noting that the first phase will commence with rice farmers. “For the rice farmers, we have mapped out 1780 hectares of land for rice production this farming season alone and will be used to fund the under the ‘Value Chain Investment Plan’ (VCIP),” he said. Speaking also, Edward Onoja, the state deputy governor, who doubles as the state steering committee chairman for the project said the state government refusal to lock down the state amid the COVID-19 pandemic has given leeway to farmers in the state. He added that the state will soon overtake Benue to become the food basket of the country.  