 The crisis rocking the bureaucratic arm of the National Assembly has continued to deteriorate as the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) has queried the clerk, Mohammed Sani-Omolori, for rejecting his retirement and that of 150 other senior management staff. The National Assembly Service Commission Wednesday approved the retirement of Sani-Omolori and his colleagues over the expiration of their years of service. But the clerk of the National Assembly rejected the retirement, insisting that the retirement age for Staff of National Assembly was 40 years of service or 65 years of age depending on whichever comes first and urged all staff to disregard the press release by the Commission and go about their lawful duties. Consequently, NASC Thursday accused the embattled clerk, Sani-Omolori, of “gross insubordination” in a query with Reference No: NASC/CHO/1/2 dated 16th July 2020, issued by its Chairman, Ahmed Amshi which was received by the registry of the Clerk Office. The query reads: “The attention of the National Assembly Service Commission was drawn to a press release titled: ‘Retirement age for the staff of the National Assembly is 40 years of service or 64 years of age whichever comes first’ dated 15th July 2020 and signed by Mohammed Sani-Omolori, Clerk to the National Assembly. “As you are very much aware, the Clerk to the National Assembly is an employee of the National Assembly Service Commission, video Section 6 (1)b of the National Assembly Act, 2014 (as amended). “The Clerk to the National Assembly has no authority whatsoever to dictate anything to the Commission. “Your press release is considered by the Commission as gross insubordination to a constituted authority. “You are, by this letter requested to explain to the Commission within twenty-four (24) hours as to why disciplinary action will not be taken against you as per provision of Section 6(2)b of the National Assembly Service Act, 2014 (as amended) for this gross insubordination,” the query read. The Commission had earlier issued a press release, directing all the staff who have attained 35 years of service or 60 years of age to proceed on retirement immediately. This decision of the commission affected Sani-Omolori and 150 senior members of staff of the National Assembly who had been directed to proceed on terminal leave immediately while retirement letters would be sent to them.