 Globacom has announced a 55percent cut on tariffs to international destinations. With the increasing need for people to connect with family and friends around the world, especially during the current Covid-19 pandemic, the telecommunications company said it has become necessary to offer extremely competitive rates to its subscribers. The company, in a statement, disclosed that the reduced tariffs do not attract subscription fees and are applicable to major destinations such as the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Ireland, South Africa, Spain and Saudi Arabia. On the African continent, the new tariffs cover Cameroon, Niger, Benin Republic, Togo and Cote d’ivoire. According to Glo, the tariffs differ from one country to another, though they are still the most competitive in the market. “United Kingdom which used to cost between N30 and N130 per minute now cost between N24 and N100 per minute depending on the network the call is landing. Similarly, calls to Spain and Italy have been reduced to N75andn 60 per minute from N90 and N130 respectively,” Globacom stated. The company further said that calls to South Africa will now attract N85 per minute instead of N150, while calls to Saudi Arabia will cost N55 per minute instead of the former N60 per minute. The tariff for France and Ireland, has been reduced to N50 and N40 respectively from N65 and N60, while calls to Cote d’ivoire, Benin Republic, Cameroon, Togo and Niger will now attract N150 instead of the old N200 per minute tariff. The network enthused that these reductions have made calls to loved ones abroad more affordable, as it emphasised that its tariffs to other major destinations such as the United States, India and China are still the most competitive in the market. “Subscribers can enjoy premium quality calls to these countries for just 50 kobo per second,” the company said. “We understand the need for our subscribers to stay in touch with their friends and family overseas now more than ever before. With the ban on international travels imposed by most countries because of the Covid-19 pandemic, people are unable to travel to reunite with loved ones. They now rely heavily on efficient and affordable telecom services to communicate with them. We have, therefore, reduced tariffs to these major destinations to make our subscribers still feel at home even when they are thousands of miles apart from their loved ones,” Globacom stated. Globacom therefore encouraged its customers to avail themselves of the tariff slash to communicate at cost-effective rates with their friends and relations in the destinations covered by the new tariffs.