 Environmental experts have called for the conservation of Lake Maladumba – one of Nigeria’s recognized international wetlands of importance, to improve food security in Bauchi state. The experts stated that thousands of smallholder farmers in the state rely on the lake for their livelihood. They also said that the lake plays host to a unique assemblage of plant and animal species that are important for the maintenance of biological diversity. “The Lake Maladumba serves as a source of livelihood for thousands of smallholder farmers that cut across 30 communities in Bauchi State,” Mohammed Garuba Boyi, senior supervision manager and coordinator – Northern-region, Nigeria Conservation Foundation said in response to questions. “There are lots of fishing activities in the lake, and the water is use for irrigation farming during the dry season,” Boyi said. He said the lake is strategically important in terms of food security and ecologically is plays a significant role for migratory birds. He noted that the sensitisation on wetlands and agriculture will go a long way in the conservation of wetlands and its protection against further distortion and depletion by human activities. Lake Maladumba is a natural and shallow lake located approximately 18 kilometers South-West of Misau Local Government and 2 kilometers East of Shelon village with a surrounding forest reserve. It is a representative of the natural wetlands of the Sudan Savanna that supports a large number of migrant bird species. Agriculture, grazing, hunting, and recreation activities are carried out around the surrounding areas of the lake, experts say. “Nigeria’s food supply shortages are met basically through wetland production as agriculture and water are inseparable,” said Mallam Mohammed, coordinator of the NCF programme in Misau Local Government Area. Mohammed says that the lake has shrunk in size as a result of the encroachments of the forest reserve surrounding the lake. “There are lots of encroachments of the forest reserve currently and this is leading to deforestation,” he said. “The water volume is reducing and the lake is shrinking. Sand dunes are coming to displace the lake and this is changing the entire climatic scenario of the area,” he added. A combination of these factors, experts say, has had adverse effects on the lake, so much, that there is now a receding shoreline, desertification, and a threat to livelihood among the surrounding communities. The receding waters and the resulting deforestation and desertification are strongly affecting pastures and grazing activities. Internationally, 11 wetlands are recognised in Nigeria, while altogether wetland covers about three percent of the country’s land surface. Stephen Aina, a programme officer at NCF says that environmental experts are concerned that factors that led to the unrelenting shrinking volume of the Lake Chad could also be at play in other natural reservoirs, especially in the semi-arid and arid regions. Only proactive steps as exemplified by recently concluded stakeholders workshop on wetland conservation can ensure that the lake survives beyond 2050, he says. He further hinted that the EarthWatch Institute, UK, through the Neville Shulman Award supported him to engage stakeholders for a holistic community watershed health campaign to address immediate issues relating to the efficient management of the lake’s catchment area. “Modalities for a well-rounded stakeholders’ engagement has commenced and we are hopeful that it would consolidate to meet the expectation of all users of the lake,” he said. “I see the lake as a national treasure that could improve future adaptation to climate change and its vices,” he added. He appreciated the NCF and relevant agencies in Bauchi for their support while calling for greater collaboration with the state government.