 Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, Wednesday says the September 19, Governorship election in Edo state is for the people of the South-South and not that of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Wike, who made the remarks while speaking on his achievements in an interview on African Independent Television(AIT) and monitored in Benin City by BusinessDay said it is time for South South to speak with one voice. Recall that before the defection of Governor Godwin Obaseki to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Edo state was the only state in South South under the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). While assuring that the South South governors would rally behind the re-election of governor, Godwin Obaseki, he added that there would be no intimidation in the election, as the people of the state will be allowed to choose who govern them. “Edo election is not an Obaseki election but for the people of the South South. “APC has never been a political party, it’s a collection of people that came together to fight Jonathan. That’s why they can’t agree “Edo people rejected Ize Iyamu in the last election because they saw he wouldn’t be a good Governor,” he said. Meanwhile, Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, has said that Governor Godwin Obaseki will be compensated by the people of the state in his administration’s giant strides in the last three and half years. Okowa, made the remarks in his 63rd years congratulatory message to the State governor. The governor’s statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, said Obaseki deserved to be celebrated for providing purposeful, courageous and result-oriented leadership for Edo people in nearly four years. “It is heart-warming to note that you have through dint of hard work, discipline and vision to industrialise Edo, won the admiration and respect of your people and the nation at large. “Your focus and commitment to reforms in governance and your ability to attract investors into your state are remarkable and worthy of commendation. “No doubt, the people of Edo will in September, reciprocate your giant strides in the last four years by returning you and your amiable deputy for another term in office to guarantee a brighter future ahead of them”,he stated. He however, lauded the Obaseki’s ingenuity and untiring spirit which he said had brought to bear in stimulating the industrialization of his state, and making life easier for the people through investments, including the Azura-Edo Independent Power Project (IPP), a 450MW Open Cycle Gas Turbine power station. He also eulogised his Edo state counterpart for his patriotic and relentless service to his state and the nation, just as he prayed to God to grant the governor long life, good health and wisdom as he continued to serve Edo people and Nigeria. “Your focus and commitment to reforms in governance and your ability to attract investors into your state are remarkable and worthy of commendation. “On behalf of my family, the government and people of Delta, I heartily rejoice with my brother governor, a reputable politician, outstanding professional, seasoned administrator, Mr Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, on his 63rd birth anniversary. “It is our prayer that God will continue to protect you and grant you good health to render more services to mankind”,he stated.