 The Catfish and Allied Fish Farmers Association of Nigeria (CAFFAN) has distributed smoked catfish as palliatives to three states in the country as part of efforts to support Nigerians cushion the effect of the novel coronavirus pandemic. The beneficiary states are; Lagos, Oyo, Rivers States, and Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Rotimi Oloye, national president, CAFFAN, flagged-off the distribution of the smoked fish in Oyo state recently. Rotimi said the gesture was to support the various states’ government in the provision of palliatives to Nigerians to cushion the effect of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in the states. “We are here today to answer the clarion call of the President Buhari, calling for support from organisations and individuals to support in the provision of palliatives that can be used to alleviate the sufferings of the less privileged amid the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. He further emphasized that the distribution of the smoked catfish was very important at this crucial time, stressing that it is one of the veritable sources of animal protein with a complete profile of essential amino acids necessary for bodybuilding, rapid cell replication, and development of the body’s immune system. While calling on governments at all levels to include home-grown fish as part of items for distribution to all vulnerable and less-privileged Nigerians, Oloye noted that fish helps in building immune systems that fight against the ravaging effects of diseases. “Home-grown fish is a mandatory food item in every home, especially now that various diseases and infections appear to challenge our health and well-being,” he said. He, however, said that the beneficiaries of the CAFFAN palliatives in their respective states would appreciate the quality of the home-grown and processed fish, provided by its members across the country. Similarly, Hassan Mundu, chairman, CAFFAN Abuja chapter donated the smoked catfish to the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) at the Kuchingoro Kaura camp in Abuja. He pointed out that the humanitarian gesture was designed to promote fish as a source of protein to complement carbohydrates and other classes of food. In a similar vein, the CAFFAN Rivers State chapter distributed processed catfish to the Rivers State Government as a palliative to the less-privileged and vulnerable people in the state. According to Clapton Ogolo, chairman, Rivers State chapter of the association, the donation was aimed at ameliorating the sufferings of the less-privileged people due to the pandemic. The association chapter in the state also presented its post-COVID-19 plan; while entering into a partnership with the government to provide a minimum of 500,000 juveniles to its members at highly subsidized rates, to enable them to continue their farming business during and after the pandemic. The presentation of the Lagos leg of the CAFFAN donation was held at the Lagos State Agricultural Development Authority. The Lagos State chapter of the donation was led by Nurat Atoba, chairperson of the state chapter. The association called on government at all levels to harness the economic value inherent in aquaculture for better yields and a means of diversification of the economy away from oil.