 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has directed its State Offices in Ondo and Edo States to re-open immediately because of the upcoming gubernatorial elections in September and October. INEC however said the resumption of activities must be in consultation with the relevant State Governments for issuance of necessary permits. The electoral umpire gave these directives in the “Guidelines for Resumption After COVID-19 Lockdown”, released on Wednesday in Abuja. According to the guidelines, funds required to meet the hygiene protocols (decontamination, hand sanitizers, and others) will be made available to these two state offices as soon as possible, and to all other state offices as the need arises. The guidelines also stipulated that: “State offices should liaise with the various State COVID-19 Response secretariats on decontamination protocols for their respective States. Local Government Area offices should remain closed and open only where/ when necessary. “Re-opening of State and Local Government Area (LGA) offices will depend on existing lockdown guidelines issued by the respective State Governments,” the commission said. INEC said the guidelines, though consistent with those issued by the Federal Government/Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, also aim to reflect peculiarities of the Commission nationwide. The Commission explained that the guidelines cover areas such as hygiene and personal health, sanitation within office premises, distancing measures, and related matters for the headquarters and state offices of the Commission. Some of these guidelines say that: “all offices of the Commission will be decontaminated before resumption and periodically to ensure environmental safety. The commission said that the use of face masks is compulsory throughout the offices of the Commission, for all staff, visitors and contractors at all times. Staff are encouraged to have their own face masks and will be guided on the use of masks. Similarly, it said that hand sanitizers will be provided at all entrances, exits and offices of the Commission. Meanwhile staff are encouraged to have their personal hand sanitizers. “Funds will be made available to state offices to procure hand sanitizers for use in the office premises. “There must be provision of water and soap for hand washing at all entrances and exits of the Commission offices and during all Commission activities. “Infrared thermometers must be used at entry and exit points at all offices of the Commission, and proper protocols will be established for the operators. “The INEC Clinic and sickbay staff will be provided with and trained on the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and early detection of COVID-19 symptoms. Specific guidelines will be made available to relevant staff handling the thermometer at the entrances on early detection of suspected cases. “Staff have responsibility to urgently report any suspected case with symptoms of the virus (cough, fever, etc) to the officer in-charge at the sickbay at the HQ, or any designated higher authority in other locations. “All meetings in the Commission should be limited to key participants and the duration of meetings be reduced to the necessary minimum. INEC said that: “Where necessary a combination of virtual and physical meetings should be held to minimize physical contacts; Zoom, Skype, Webinars and other Virtual interactive techniques will be explored and employed to meet internally and with external stakeholders. “Commission meetings and other meetings should be held at the Conference Hall or any other outsourced hall where the two (2) meter social distance can be maintained,” INEC said.