 The Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives has congratulated Nigerians as the country marks her 60th Independence anniversary, describing the ordinary Nigerian citizens as “the true heroes of our nationhood”. The lawmakers, in a statement signed by the Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, particularly called for more commitment from leaders at all levels in the task of nation building, especially at this critical period in its national history. The caucus however commended Nigerians “for their perseverance and commitment in all spheres of life towards the unity, stability and development of the nation despite the prevailing economic, political and security challenges they face.” “As we celebrate our nation’s landmark 60th independence anniversary, we must commend our citizens across board, for their commitment towards a united Nigeria, despite all odds. “Over the years, our citizens have, in the face of political, economic, religious and security challenges, demonstrated an unmatched resilience towards the unity and survival of our nation; and we urge a redoubling of this sense of unity and love among our compatriots”, the lawmakers said. The caucus however urged Nigerians “not to despair over the prevailing security and economic challenges, but continue to keep hope alive in the collective effort to pull the nation out of the wood”. Elumelu also called on leaders at all levels, especially elected and appointed office holders to redouble their efforts, show more commitment towards the common good of the people and eschew divisive tendencies of nepotism, favouritism, discrimination, marginalization as well as corruption in the discharge of their duties.” The caucus urged President Muhammadu Buhari to use the 60th independence anniversary as a standpoint to act on the call by well-meaning Nigerians to rejig the nation’s economy and security architecture so as to end the violence and economic hardship being experienced by Nigerians. The lawmakers however urged those behind the violent attacks in various parts of the country to have a rethink and understand that their actions cannot be justified under any guise. The caucus also urged traditional institutions and religious bodies to intensify their efforts in providing leadership and engendering social virtues at their levels of engagement. “Furthermore, our caucus commends the collective effort by Nigerians in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic but counsels Nigerians not drop their guards because we are not yet free from the pandemic”, the statement added.