 As the electorates in Ondo State go to the poll tomorrow (Saturday), they would have the choice to determine who rule the state for another four years by their vote. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), 17 political parties fielded candidates for the weekend governorship poll. But the main political parties and contestants to watch out for in the election are – incumbent Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of the APC (North), Eyitayo Jegede of the PDP (Central) and Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi, of the (ZLP) (South). The emergence of Ajayi into the race after he fell apart with Governor Akeredolu, has been described as a “third force”. No doubt about the fact that one of the three candidates will emerge the governor of the state after the election. While speaking at the stakeholders meeting held at the ‘Dome’ event centre in Akure, the Ondo state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Rufus Akeju, said, “everything required statutorily has been put in place for the registered voters in the state to vote for the candidate of their choice tomorrow.” According to him, the delimitation data of the State are as follow, number of registered voters, 1,822, 346, number of PVCs distributed 1,478,460, number of PVCs remaining uncollected 343,886. Akeju noted that implication of the above was that only 1,478,460 voters that collected the permanent voter cards are expected to come to the various voting points to exercise their franchise on Saturday. Also, the INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, promised that all eligible voters would have equal opportunity to exercise their right to vote appealing to all political parties, candidates and their supporters for peaceful conduct. “Our commitment is to ensure that the choice of who becomes the next Governor of Ondo State is entirely in the hands of the voters. I wish to assure all eligible voters that every vote will count and only the choice made by the people of Ondo State will determine the outcome of the election. “I want to assure political parties and candidates that we will remain focused on our processes and procedures. Let me reiterate to all stakeholders that the Commission will not take any action to the advantage or disadvantage of any political party or candidate. “I wish to reassure the people of Ondo State that the Commission has taken every step to ensure that the election on Saturday is free, fair, credible, inclusive and safe,” Yakubu said. The political atmosphere in the state ahead of the Saturday election is tensed as supporters of the main political parties are in a last minutes of wooing electorates to their different camps.