 Top excellence beauty entrepreneur, Juliet Goodman, is a youthful energetic beautician who has transformed the skin health management business into a gainful endeavor. She is the author of the exceptional excellence brand 1303 Organic Therapy, which has immediately become a favored brand for Nigerian ladies home and abroad. Juliet clarifies that her enthusiasm for the magnificence and wellbeing industry was conceived out of the longing to put a grin on the essences of each excellence devotee, bringing back their certainty and making space for self esteem. She accepts that all skin tones are perfectly made and can be appropriately sustained with her astounding scope of healthy skin care products. Juliet Goodman, Nigeria’s driving magnificence business visionary changing the substance of the excellence and skin health management business. In the realm of excellence and health, there is a gigantic developing enthusiasm for items and administrations that commend the substance of Africa’s novel common assets and fixings, while simultaneously tackling customary aptitudes and most recent information in the magnificence and wellbeing industry. “I started way back in school,” she explained. “After school I got married and needed to establish my own business. In my quest to fulfill my passion for making people happy, I decided to go into skincare formulations, because through skincare products the needs and beauty goals of people are met and they are happy once they’re getting value for their money. Also, I was dark-skinned and I needed something to make my skin pop, so I kept trying a range of products that resulted negatively in skin discoloration. So I resorted to finding something that would enhance my skin whilst at the same time maintain my skin tone. This was what motivated me to go into the formulation of skin care products that work for all types of skin – dark skin, light skin, etc. “I am the first skincare therapist to bring about the idea that skincare products should be natural and almost edible because I make my products with so much love, and giving them body milk like whitening, lightening, and chocolate body milks,” she narrated.