 Green Eagles Agribusiness Solutions Limited, a leading agribusiness is targeting cooperative societies for its GreenWealth Initiative in Nigeria’s agricultural sector. The GreenWealth Project, an agricultural initiative aimed at ensuring food security, export prominence, economic diversification, and sustainable wealth for all stakeholders. The project is designed to enhance profitability for stakeholders across agricultural value chains, as well as facilitate easy and profitable entry for investors to become farm sponsors. “Food security has become a more serious issue than ever, and as a nation, we must bridge the local deficit in the production of critical food and cash crops to avert a major food crisis,” Taiwo Oluwadahushola, chief executive officer during a symposium for cooperative societies in Lagos recently. Oluwadahushola stated that cooperative societies have a vital role to play in the achievement of the GreenWealth objectives. “We are persuaded that Lagos State Cooperatives can play a vital role in the achievement of the GreenWealth objectives as well as provide tremendous benefits to all individual members in terms of decent RoI, lower food prices, a strengthened naira and increased purchasing power of every Nigerian worker,” he said. “Our projections show we can assure an annual return 30percent to sponsors, that is 15percent every six months. At the end of each investment circle, a sponsor may request a rollover or principal repayment” he added. Speaking also, Osiefa Akinbayo, director-agribusiness, Lagos State Ministry of Commerce Industry and cooperatives, encouraged cooperative societies to take advantage of the opportunity the project presents. “This is indeed a good opportunity for cooperatives to invest in agribusiness especially now that the nation is diversifying into agriculture,” she said. “The GreenWealth Project is a laudable initiative and I must commend the management of Green Eagles Agribusiness for this,” she added. Emmanuel Ijiwere, a board of directors of the firm emphasized that its high time individuals take action and make agriculture a major source of livelihood at all levels while ensuring food security in Nigeria and Africa as agribusiness is now the new oil. Similarly, Bola Adetayo, director of Strategy and business development said that the GreenWealth Project will help in creatively restructuring the nation’s agribusiness space to achieve the goal of shoring up the nation’s GDP through agriculture. “In achieving this goal, we will facilitate the establishment of Integrated Farm Estates in 774 Local Government Areas across the country to drive a rapid increase in crops & livestock,” she said.