 Shopagric, an agri-tech crowdfunding platform is offering investment opportunities for investors in cash crops and livestock value chains in the country. A monthly sponsorship window allows potentially interested investors to fund their e-wallet and sponsor as many farm units of their choice as possible with a return on investment (ROI) of 18percent in 18 weeks per unit of poultry farm, 20 percent in six months for a unit of fish farm and 21 percent ROI for rice processing in six months. Shopagric has been in operation for over 12 months with a ranch and an agro-processing plant located at Kuchiko-ijah, Niger state, Nigeria. Since its inception, Shopagric has completed six major poultry farm projects with a production capacity of 46,000 broiler birds, a fish farm project, and a rice farming project. Currently, they have a 4, 000 layer bird capacity farm with a view on expanding before the end of the year to a 20,000 layers bird capacity pen fully automated. The company also has a catfish farm production capacity of 22, 000, and recently set up a functional hatchery to help increase the catfish production capacity to 100,000 by December 2020. With the increasing consumption of rice as a staple in Nigeria, a 60 tonne per day fully automatic rice milling plant has been approved by the board of directors to be set up on the ranch and agro-processing plant, in Niger state( being one of the largest rice-producing states in Nigeria). Shopagric also has a completed and fully functional meat processing house on the ranch and agro-processing plant for the processing of all produced birds in the farm, to increase the value of the agro-chain in the poultry broiler production sector. With a view on further expansion of production capacity on the various agro-sectors, a formidable and smart team had to be built; Shopagric has staff strength of 37 young Nigerians in five different states in the country (Kano, Edo state, Abuja, Niger State, and Jos). Shopagric also has other investment packages such as Eduvest which gives parents or intending parents the opportunity to invest in a compound interest rate of 2.5percent per month, a savings plan within the range of 1.55 percent to two percent monthly.