 Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, has sacked his Special Assistant on Internal Security and Utility (Urban), Mr. Saint Nchekwube Anakor for non performance and prevailing security challenges in the state. The Governor also sacked the Development Centre Coordinator of Anuagata, Barr. Amos Ogbonnaya, Coordinator Okposi Development Center , Mr. Jerry Okorie Ude and Mrs. Martha Nwankwo Coordinator Ohaozara-East Development Center all in Ohaozara Local Government Area of the State. To avoid loopholes, the Governor nominated Mr Chidiebere Egwu as the Special Assitant on Internal Security and Utility Urban. Umahi also announced three Development Center Coordinators to take over the three development centers where their previous coordinators have been removed. A statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government and Coordinating Commissioner, Dr. Kenneth Ugbala said the suspension becomes necessary to help the State Government address current security situation in the state. The statement; “in his avowed determination to address prevailing security situation in the State, the Governor of Ebonyi State, Dr David Umahi has ordered the immediate removal from office of the underlisted Coordinators of Development Centers in the State for non-performance”. “Barr. Amos Ogbonnaya, Anuagata Development Center, Mr. Jerry Okorie Ude, Okposi Development Center, and Mrs. Martha Nwankwo, Ohaozara-East Development Center. “Consequently, His Excellency the Governor has approved the nomination of the following persons as Acting Coordinators of the affected Development Centers with immediate effect”. “Mr. Tochukwu Uzor, Anuagata Development Center, Mr. Henry Ugochi Ovoke, Okposi Development Center, and Mr. Ernest Okorie, Ohaozara-East Development Center”.“ “Similarly, the Special Assistant to the Governor on Internal Security and Utility (Urban), Mr. Saint Nchekwube Anakor, is hereby removed from office with immediate effect. Mr Chidiebere Egwu is to take over as SA on Internal Security and Utility (Urban). The sacked officials are to hand over all Government property in their possession to the Secretary to the State Government/Coordinating Commissioner before the close of work on Monday 26th of October 2020. Recall that hoodlums who disguised as #EndSARS protesters invaded Abakaliki on Wednesday and set ablaze kpirikpiri and Ekeaba police stations in Abakaliki, destroy Government properties and smashed vehicle of road users at Udensi round and salt spring junction. The suspects further moved to Ohaozara area and burnt down Okposi police station, as well as Uburu police station all in Ohaozara local government area of the state. The hoodlums who invaded the state wearing black and red clothes with plan fronds on their lips, carrying object Suspected to be charm in a black local pot, created serious tension in the State and attempted to free inmates at the correctional center in Abakaliki. The act let to shooting of one person by the security operatives. They also attacked central police station along Ezza road. However, Governor Umahi on Saturday visited the police stations set ablaze by the miscreants and other government facilities destroyed to ascertain level of distruction.