 The main political parties contesting the Ondo state governorship election, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) are throwing harsh words at each other ahead of the October 10 governorship election in the state. Candidates of the PDP, Eyitayo Jegede and the incumbent governor Rotimi Akeredolu of the APC respectively are also intensifying their rhetoric as they plot to outwit each other ahead of the contest. The PDP National Campaign Council For Ondo Governorship election on Thursday revealed that with all critical indices, the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede , will defeat his APC counterpart, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Saturday. The Chairman of the PDP Campaign’s Publicity Sub-Committee, Kola Ologbondiyan, in an interview on TV on Thursday morning, revealed that Governor Akeredolu’s poor governance as well as anti-people policies of denying the people of their rights to health, education and economic benefits, have irredeemably pitched him against voters. According to a statement from the PDP, this is coming on the heels of Governor Akeredolu’s open declaration that the PDP candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, is a fit, capable and trusted hand to manage the affairs of the state as governor. “Akeredolu, in a recent interview on Arise TV agreed that Eyitayo Jegede is a competent hand to lead the state. In endorsing Jegede, Governor Akeredolu, described the PDP candidate as ‘worthy of the office’; a statement that conveys Governor Akeredolu’s readiness to concede defeat after being voted out on Saturday,” the PDP statement said. According to Ologbondiyan, “Governor Akeredolu went against the heart of the expectation and values of the Ondo people. Education, welfarism for the poor, particularly their health and economic empowerment are at the core expectation of the people but Governor Akeredolu’s administration went against all of them.” However, the APC through its Deputy National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena, in a statement gave 10 reasons Rotimi Akeredolu deserves a second term in office.