 Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun state has appointed Olamilekan Moshood Agbelesebioba, popularly known as LAYCON, winner of the just concluded Big Brother Naija, as the Youth Ambassador of the state. Governor Abiodun, who made the announcement when he played host to LAYCON, in his office at Oke-Mosan in Abeokuta, also gave Laycon a three-bedroom bungalow and five million naira only. Governor Abiodun expressed the hope that the good character, excellence, good virtues, calmness, integrity of Odeda, Ogun state-born winner, would serve as a model to youth in the state. “It is hoped that you will help inspire our teeming youths to channel their energies towards positive engagements and shun vices such as robbery, drug abuse, cultism, advanced fee fraud, cybercrimes and kidnapping amongst other negative tendencies”, he said. He described LAYCON’s conduct in the House as a demonstrating the Omoluabi component, the primary ingredient of an Ogun state born Nigerian, observing that despite all the odds, temptations and provocations, he was able to come out unscathed and uninvolved in any scandal or immoral act. “You have also demonstrated with the way you carried out your assigned tasks in the House with comportment; intellectual responses to questions and; your spirit of fair-play, that your academic achievement at the University of Lagos was earned. This has also shown that our Universities can and still produce graduates that are found worthy in character and good learning. “Indeed, what we are celebrating today is much more than the entertainment that the House provided, but what you represent: a rare combination of prodigious intellect, academic excellence, multi-faceted talents, character and resilience. I believe, your career will draw inspiration from great sons and daughters of Ogun State who have made their mark in their choosen careers”, he added. The governor said he was impressed with LAYCON’s display while in the BBNaija House, admonished parents and guardians to help in nurturing individual talents of their children and wards to enable them be useful to themselves and the society in the future.