 The youth wing of the Ndoki Peoples Freedom Movement, Port Harcourt branch, has accused Adolphus Wabara, a former Senate President, of planning to impose his brother, as the preferred candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ukwa East. This is as political parties prepare for the local government (chairmanship and councillorship) election in Abia State, scheduled for December 18, 2020. The group in a letter dated September 29, 2020, made available to BusinessDay, in Aba, Thursday, alleged that the former Senate President is intimidating people with tales that Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, has already settled him with the PDP Chairmanship ticket of Ukwa East. They urged Governor Ikpeazu, to stop Wabara, from his plan to impose his younger brother, Chucks Wabara, as the candidate of PDP, in the forthcoming Local Government election in the State. The youths told Ikpeazu that if he supports what they tagged “evil and insensitive plan” being orchestrated by Wabara, to materialize, Ukwa East LGA would become a family business of the former Senate President. “We would have kept quiet for this to happen to quicken the final burial of PDP in Ukwa East LGA, even before 2023, but because of the adverse effect it will have on us-the youths and our people, we have decided to warn against it”, they stated. The youths urged Ikpeazu to stop the alleged political settlement of Wabara, stressing that he has been politically settled enough and should not be allowed to keep standing on the growth of other younger persons with better aspirations. “You and your party have settled Wabara enough with the position of Pro-Chancellor of Abia State University, Uturu; Secretary Board of Trustees of PDP, at the National level and the Abia State Chairmanship of PDP, at the State level. “He also served as a Senator for 8 years, as well as President of the Senate. “Before going to the Senate, Wabara represented us at the House of Representatives and at the local level, as our LGA Chairman. “He has also served as the Supervisory Councilor of our LGA. He’s healthy and doing well.