 Chairmen of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have passed a vote of confidence on the Governor Mai-Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the party. This was sequel to the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Bukar Dalori, APC Chairman for Borno State and Chairman, Forum of APC Chairmen in Nigeria and seconded by Abba Yaro, APC Chairman in Benue State at a
meeting with the Chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee, Buni at the party’s Secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday. Moving the motion, Dalori said: “The Chairman on behalf of the APC Caretaker Committee briefed the State Chairmen on the progress so far made on their assignment, from inception, to date.We are pleased and proud of what they have achieved so far and have assured the Committee of the support of the entire APC membership across the country. “The Party is getting more united, with more people joining and last weekend success in Ondo State is a reflection of its successes. Equally, the plans for the new membership registration, in accordance with section 9.4 of our Party constitution, which provides that a register of members shall be compiled and maintained at the Ward level has met with the approval of Party members across the country. “Finally, our attention has been drawn to social media stories allegedly giving ultimatum to the APC Caretaker Committee by a group, calling themselves “Concerned All Progressives Congress Members”. This is an unknown group in the APC and wonder if they are actually “concerned”, as their name suggests. The APC Chairman unanimously condemns any attempt to distract efforts of the APC Caretaker Committee from the commendable work they have been doing”. Addressing the Forum, Buni, called on the State chairmen to prevail on members in their domain to withdraw all litigations from the court while disclosing the plan to embark on a partywide national membership register update. He said: “Please, also allow me to use this opportunity to inform us all that the need for our party to undertake a Partywide national membership register update is sacrosanct to our strength and preparation for all upcoming and future electioneering outings. “The CECPC is already at the table strategising on the national membership registration exercise. The responsibility is on you as able state chairmen to commence the procedure for full sensitisation and needed awareness for a successful membership registration exercise in your various states as we all wait for the final briefing from CECPC”.