 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to listen to religious leaders and past presidents to save Nigeria from disintegration. The party said the president should listen and learn from those that had been in office before him in order to make the country better and secure. The PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, gave the advise on Monday in Abuja during a ‘Thank You’ visit of the reelected Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, to the leadership of the party. He also said God had shamed those boasting to be godfathers in Nigeria politics with the victory of Obaseki. “Today, God has brought all their boasting to nothing. God has humbled them. Why do you arrogate to yourself a power as if you are God,” Secondus asked. Obaseki was accompanied by his deputy, Philip Shaibu, on the visit. Recall that the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Enoch Adeboye, on Saturday advised the federal government to give Nigeria a lasting solution to secession agitations and its economic challenges by restructuring the country. Two former Heads of State, Yakubu Gowon, and former President Olusegun Obasanjo, had also called for restructuring. Groups like the apex Igbo sociocultural group, Ohanaeze Nsigbo; Afenifere and the Middle Belt Forum have also called for restructuring of Nigeria. But the apex northern group, the Arewa Consultative Forum, however preferred a referendum to determine Nigeria’s continues existence. Secondus said, “Free and fair election is the only thing that can bring peace in the country. We don’t want this country to break but he should listen to the advise of both religious leaders and other leaders of our country who have also tasted power before.” He, however, thanked the president for peace witnessed in the September 19 Edo governorship election. “Let us thank the President and all those in authority because without that there would have been confusion. “If there is no other thing…. his legacy, he (Buhari) would be remember for conducting a free and fair election. When the time comes, experts will come and rearrange the economy and Nigeria will prosper.” Secondus also thanked foreign embassies in the country, European Union, the media and civil society organisations among others for insisting on a free and fair election. Recall that the United States embassy imposed travelled on some politicians in the country for electoral violence and related issues before the September 19 governorship election. “The government is for the people, it can’t be otherwise,” he said. Secondus urged Obaseki to reconcile with those against his reelection bid, especially the aggrieved 14 All Progressives Congress members of the state House of Assembly, to move the state forward. He said, “Your Excellency, my advise for you is that the election is over, the expectations are very high. You must now show the experience you came with from the private sector. In the political world, it is your ability to lead everyone together especially in this your last tenure; it is important to make sure that there are three arms of government – the executive which you head. “Even though you are the overall boss, make sure that the legislative arm, those who have offended you…who ran helter skelter, bring them back; they are your children. “You are the father of Edo, bring them on board and work with all of them because that will be your legacy. It is not money or anything else but your ability to bring everybody on board to work with you and I am quite sure that Edo people are ready even those from the other party, who are willing to come, let them come. Obaseki said he was at the PDP national secretariat to thank the leaders for supporting him. “You helped smoothen our entrance into PDP, you cleared us in record time so that we could participate in the primaries of the party. You help us navigate through the whole process in which the other aspirants stepped down for me to allow me contest as the flag bearer for the party,” he said. He added, “As if that was not enough, the election itself the preparations and what transpired on the 19th of September, the ability to mobilize the governors and for the first time in my political career, I felt I was in a political family.” Meanwhile, Obaseki in an interview after the event, said he could not do anything to bring the 14 Edo All Progressives Congress lawmakers back to the assembly for inauguration.
He said, “We have a dissident group that people elected and refused to be inaugurated, they were not prevented. They were listening to their godfather who kept hoping and promising that he would unconstitutionally get the state House of Assembly to reissue a proclamation even after the court had settled the matter. “For more than 180 days they did not come. They refused to represent the people. Those seats became vacant; that’s what the constitution says. They went to court after those were declared vacant by the Speaker. There is nothing I can do that at this time. I wish it didn’t happen but people were playing god and promising what is not constitutional. “I’m not one that plant people into the house of assembly, they on their own operated the rules the way it should be, the seats are now vacant. “Even if I wanted today to bring them back, I don’t have such powers.”