 The Kwara state government says it’s putting various measures in place and collaborating with different stakeholders to ensure food security and zero hunger targets in the state. Speaking at a food summit organised to commemorate the 2020 World Food Day last Friday in the state, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Kwara state Governor listed steps taken to serve as a guide towards attaining food security and zero hunger as well as the proposed Agricultural Transformation Plan to boost farmers’ productivity. “This year’s programme is another opportunity to re-dedicate ourselves to improve agricultural productivity and agribusinesses that will reduce food importation, enhance the local economy, and create a sustainable livelihood and food security for the people,” he said. “All of these would be made possible with the support of all stakeholders in the state, including the Kwara Agriculture Network which is our partner in the Zero Hunger Kwara Project,” he further said. He says his administration has taken deliberate efforts to boost agro productivity in the state, adding that farmers were provided support in the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have paid counterpart funds of N200m for the World Bank RAAMP project to ensure that several farming communities are connected with good roads. Between 500 and 600 rural roads would be fixed under the scheme,” he said. Abdulrazaq noted that the state keyed into the Federal Government’s National Livestock Transformation program and met the criteria of the AfDB to be among the hub of Special Agro-processing Zones in Nigeria (SAPZ). “We have enrolled in the World Bank CARES and APPEALS programme to support rural livelihoods. “Our administration has also facilitated the participation of commodity associations such as Maize Farmers Association to access loan facilities from CBN. We have also recently distributed 25,000 of cocoa seedlings to support our farmers,” he added. Abdulrazaq added that at least 5,000 women in the state will benefit from the CBN Noiler chicken empowerment programme. “We are also working out a partnership with the FrieslandCampina Wamco to develop our dairy sector,” he added. Muritala Olanrewaju, Commissioner for Agriculture appreciated the organisers (Kwara Agricultural Network) for a carefully-chosen theme ‘Grow, Nourish, Prosper together’ which aligns with the present administration’s policy on food and nutrition in the country. Also speaking, AbdulQowiy Olododo, technical assistant to the Governor on Agriculture, explained that the event was part of the government’s actions aimed at promoting food security, food safety, and achieve zero hunger in the state. Collaborating with the state government, Kwara Agriculture Network organised the event to promote food security. Panellists at the event included Olajide Ajao (Prof), from Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomosho; Achebe Paul from the Union Bank; Jamila Bio-Ibrahim (Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Sustainable Development Goals; and Nasir AbdulQadir. Speakers identified the nexus between poverty and hunger, urging governments at all levels to solve poverty issues to achieve zero hunger in the country. They also called on farmers to tap into various opportunities for farmers through capacity building and other interventions. 