 The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has charged officers deployed for the October 10 governorship election in Ondo State to maintain political neutrality and resist any temptation that could betray their professional calling or threaten the democratic process. The IGP gave this charge while addressing the police personnel deployed to for Saturday’s election in Akure, the Ondo state capital, on Monday. The police boss told the personnel that beyond securing the public space all through the electoral process, they should be deployed to adequately police the 3,009 Polling Units (PUs) in 203 Wards spread over the 18 Local Government Areas of the State. He said: “It also means that you should all be prepared to be held accountable for all your actions and inactions as you discharge your election security duties. I have in the course of my interaction with the stakeholders vouched on your behalf that you shall all be apolitical, firm and uncompromising. I assured them that while we shall be civil enough to protect the law-abiding citizens, we shall be decisive in dealing with any political deviant that may attempt to disrupt the peaceful order during the election. “You shall also be utilised to protect the personnel, materials and facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the electorates, and residents of Ondo State in general before, during and immediately after the elections. “You are to be guided by your Oath of Office and allegiance to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In the performance of your duty, you should also prioritise your personal safety by adhering strictly to the COVID-19 safety protocols.” Adamu also tasked the officers to conduct themselves within the framework of the Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for Security Personnel on Electoral Duty as developed and approved by the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES). He lauded the police for their conduct in ensuring a peaceful and credible governorship election in Edo state in September even as he tasked them to replicate the success in Ondo election on Saturday. The IGP, however, expressed concern over the excesses of personnel in the Federal and State anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and other special units that operate in mufti, who engage in all manner of rights abuses recently. He condemned the re-surging trend of unprofessional conducts by some police personnel who in utter disregard to their professional training, international protocols, constitutional dictates, Force policies, and ethical standards have continued to drag the Force into acts that pitch it against the citizens they were engaged, paid, and statutorily obligated to serve and protect. He warned that “any police personnel that insists on being incorrigible by engaging in abuse of his or her powers in a manner that degrades, endangers or threatens the life and other fundamental rights of the citizens shall be promptly arrested, processed through our internal disciplinary machinery and if found culpable, shall be dismissed from service.” He therefore charged all Heads of Departments, Zonal Inspectors General of Police, Commissioners of Police, Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers or Sectional Heads to strengthen their supervisory control towards enforcing discipline among all ranks in their jurisdiction. “I must emphasise that enough is enough. The nation and indeed the police under the current leadership shall no longer tolerate abuses associated with the Police,” he said.