 The Anselm Ojezua-led faction of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Friday called on the governor of Yobe State, Mai -Mala Buni- led National Caretaker Committee to enforce the suspension order on Adams Oshiomhole and other persons against whom disciplinary actions have been properly taken by the relevant organs of the Party in the State. The party made the call in a communiqué issued after its executive committee meeting at the party’s secretariat in Benin City to review the outcome of the just concluded governorship election in the state. The communique signed by Anselm Ojezua and Ose udiamen Edekere, State Chairman and State Secretary of the party in the state also want the committee to investigate the alleged anti-Party activities of the former National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole. Ojezua said the investigation should include the circumstances and procedures that led to the admission of Osagie Ize Iyamu into the Party having regards to the clear and unambiguous provisions of the Constitution of the Party (as amended). Other demands of the party was for the committee to further explore avenues to achieve full and genuine reconciliation in Edo State. He noted that anything short of the demands will spell doom for the party in the state. He said the meeting was to review the major factors that led to the abysmal failure of the Party which made it impossible to retain its prime position in the state. “That the leadership of the Party at the National level allowed Oshiomhole to lead the campaign in Edo State to the exclusion of the entire Party apparatus, in spite of his suspended membership status and the disgraceful dissolution of the National Working Committee that he led, leaves so much to be desired. With due respect, it smacks of gross negligence. “In the light of the foregoing, we believe that the National Caretaker Committee must present itself as being serious in its quest to reposition the Party in response to the clear mandate of the National Executive Committee and the yearnings of the teeming members of the Party in Edo State whose confidence in the leadership has been greatly compromised. “They must exhibit the requisite courage to do all that is necessary and which must be predicated on the provisions of the Constitution of the Party and full obedience to the rule of law. With particular reference to Edo State. “Arising from the foregoing, it was clear that the campaign effort of the Party in Edo State was designed to fail. Both Pastor Ize Iyamu and Adams Oshiomhole erroneously believed that they could prosecute the campaign on the strength of their individual popularity to the exclusion of the entire Party Structure in the State”,he said. Efforts to get reaction from Chris Azebamwen, the factional publicity secretary loyal to the former National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole proved abortive as several calls put to his mobile phone went unanswered. 