 Following the announcement by the independent electoral commission (INEC) that February 18th, 2023 as the date for the presidential election, the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ebonyi State has vowed to correct their 2019 mistakes and take over Ebonyi State Government house in 2023. The party spoke during the peace and progress meeting in Abakaliki Ebonyi State capital. Minister of science and technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, during the meeting, appealed to the party stakeholders to come together and form a formidable force that will remove PDP from power in the State. He urged APC members to work as a team to make Ebonyi one of the decision-makers of the party at the national level by supporting the party Programmes. “We want APC flag to fly in Ebonyi Government house. I want to assure you if we can work together, there is no mountain we can’t climb. And it is very important that we do so. “The administration of President Mohammed Buhari remembers you and the South East. We have seen some things that can not be done in 16 years, some have been completed and many others are in the process of completion. “Today we have a brand new airport with a runaway that is one of the best in the country. The features we have in that airport can take any aircraft. “Today work is going on the second Niger bridge and we know how important that bridge is to the southeast with respect to the economy of the people in the region and some parts of the south-south and beyond. This is a bridge that so many years we heard of all different kinds of arrangements but no one was going on but today work is progressing and by the grace of almighty God by 2022 that bridge will be commissioned,” Onu said. Pastor Eze Nwachukwu, APC Chairman in Ebonyi State, said the meeting was online with national reconciliation policy. He said the peace talks had started at the local government level before the final one at the state party office. “Today all factions and all leaders have accepted to bury their bickering, restrategize and move forward for winning elections in 2023. All this didn’t happen without some far-reaching decision ranging from the house mandating the leader of the party Ogbonnaya Onu, the Honourable Ministry of Science and Technology, the former Governor of Ebonyi State Chief Martin Elechi, Senator Chris Nwankwo, Hon Ugo Chima, Senator Anthony Agbo, Hon. Chinedu Ogah, and the party Chairman to form a committee that will ensure that the imposition of candidates and all that made us not to win the election in 2019 didn’t happen again. ‘And above all, they should take a step to consult the national leadership of the party and the federal government because the way and manner Ebonyi State Government handles federal government incentives is quite disheartening” He said