 The Agricultural Skills Acquisition Programme (ASAP) 2020, a German Agricultural funded programme has offered to train young aspiring farmers between the ages of 18-35 years to register for its Module 3: Farmer Cooperative training. This follows successful training 650 young Nigerians in Good Agricultural Practices and Farmer Business School,in module 1 and 2 of its programme, ASAP 2020 is an agriculture sector support programme funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) under the Skills Development for Youth Employment – SKYE -programme project. It is implemented by FarmAgric Foundation for Agriculture. The programme aims to reduce youth unemployment by enabling young Nigerians to acquire knowledge and motivation to be successful in the agriculture sector. According to statement from the organisers, the ASAP 2020 Module 3 training will focus on the topic of farmer cooperatives, how to form, manage and sustain cooperatives. The module includes field (farm) visits, placement of selected beneficiaries in agri-business internships on farms within Abuja and its neighbouring states. Discussing the importance of the training, the Executive Director of FarmAgric Foundation, Veronica Valentine, emphasised that the training is very timely as it comes after President Muhammadu Buhari’s call on young people to take advantage of the opportunities in the agricultural sector. “I encourage every young person interested in agriculture in Abuja to take advantage of this opportunity as our syllabus is very robust and of international standard. “Therefore, interested participants are encouraged to register at www.farmagricfoundation.org/asap to be part of the ASAP 2020 Module 3 Farmer Cooperative training,” Ms Valentine added. In line with the recommendations of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Federal Government of Nigeria, health and safety measures have been put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 – such as temperature checks, compulsory use of facemasks, and hand-washing stations which will ensure the safety of all staff and programme participan.