 The Senate on Wednesday demanded the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to arrest, investigate and prosecute erring security operatives found to have carried out extra judicial killings. The request followed a motion brought by Senator Oluremi Tinubu, APC Lagos, under Order 42 of the senate rules. Tinubu complained about the serial killings of Nigerian youths by the operatives of the Federal Special Anti Robbery Squad. She cited the example of one Kolade Johnson, who was killed while watching football match at a viewing centre in Lagos and one Kazeem alias Kaka, a footballer, who was pushed down from a moving vehicle to death by men of SARS. “Nigerian youth can no longer move freely for fear that they will be profiled and accused of being ‘yahoo boys’ or fraudsters, merely because they look good, own laptops, iPhones, nice looking cars, or profiled for having dreadlocks and certain hairstyles,” she said. At the plenary presided over by the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, the senate mandated its Committee on Judiciary and Human Rights to investigate the allegations of human right abuses against the operatives of the FSARS. It urged all security agencies to establish hotlines for report of activities of their men and for them to establish Special Bureau Unit to monitor the conducts of operatives, arrest and prosecute erring ones. It also mandated the committee on Judiciary to investigate allegations of extra judicial killings and other allegations as well as recommend reparation. The senate also mandated its Committee on Police Affairs to organise a stakeholders meeting to see to the implementation of the Police Trust Fund. The upper chamber while commending the IGP for his swift response by banning FSARS and other tactical squads from routine patrol urged him to review their mandates to restrain them from undue interferences in Nigerians lives. The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, who supported the motion said the men of FSARS had become more of extortionists than law enforcement agents.