 Leaders of Ijaw communities in Edo South Senatorial District have congratulated Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu, on their victory at the September 19, 2020 governorship poll in Edo State, expressing confidence that the governor will unite the various ethnic groups of the state and create a peaceful and conducive environment for its rapid development. The community leaders, in a statement signed by C. A. Dime (chairman), Edmund Tiemo (vice chairman and spokesman), Robinson Ogunkoru (general secretary), and others, charged the governor to rise above the twin evils of parochialism and ethnicity while striving to leave behind a long-term legacy in the footsteps of the late Samuel Ogbemudia. “We, the leaders of the Five Ijaw Kingdoms of Edo South and indeed, the entire ljaw Nation, heartily congratulate His Excellency, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki and Comrade Philip Shaibu, on your re-election as Governor and Deputy Governor respectively, for the next four years,” the statement said. “By your overwhelming victory at the polls, the people of Edo State have spoken, loud and clear: You are the Governor of all of Edo State under God Almighty; the man with the vision and the will to unite the various ethnic groups of the state and create a peaceful and conducive environment for the rapid development of the state, based on truth, justice and equity. “We implore you to rise above the twin evils of parochialism and ethnicity while striving to leave behind a long-term legacy in the footsteps of the revered Dr. Samuel Osaigbovo Ogbemudia of blessed memory,” it said. The leaders further implored the governor to recognise and deal with credible community leaders to facilitate the realisation of his laudable developmental objectives. “You can count on our full support,” they pledged. Other signatories to the statement include Joel G. Jibor (chief security officer), Bibowei James Braie, R. E. O. Esite (legal adviser), and Pius Donyegha (chief community relations officer).