 Miffed by the prevailing situations which have prompted unending protests, brutal killings of youths by security agencies and destruction of public and private properties across Nigeria, former President Olusegun Obasanjo has warned President Muhammadu Buhari against further usage of brute force to end the protests against the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squads (SARS). The former president, who condemned the killing of innocent youths, especially at the Lekki Toll Plaza and other places, mainly in Lagos state by security operatives believed to have been ordered by the Presidency, expressed condolences to the families and relatives of the youths killed across the country for #EndSARS protests, calling on youths to eschew violence and embrace peace and dialogue in finding solutions to the challenges being faced by Nigeria. Speaking via a press statement personally signed and released to the media by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, Obasanjo noted that the killing of youths by security agencies was needless and could only
reinforce the anger and frustration of the populace and close the window of dialogue and peaceful resolution, adding that youths should also embrace dialogue and be weary of miscreants infiltrating and hijacking the peaceful #EndSARS protests. He said, “It is with a heavy heart and deep sense of concern about the ongoing violence, chaos and unrest in many parts of Nigeria that I make this appeal to the government and people of our dear country, Nigeria , to eschew violence and embrace peace and dialogue in finding solutions to the challenges we face as a country. “I particularly appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari, in capacities as President of Nigeria, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, and a parent of youth like the ones who have in the last week come out in peaceful protest against police brutality and for improvement in their lives and their living conditions, to restrain the military and other security agencies from using brute force as a way of ending the crisis. “The shooting and murder of unarmed protesters, no matter the level of provocation has never been effective in suppressing public anger and frustration. Instead, such actions only reinforce the anger and frustration of the populace and close the window of dialogue and peaceful resolution. “It is clear that Mr. President and his lieutenants did not exhaust the opportunities for dialogue with the protesters before resulting to use of force. It is worse that there is denial of wrongdoing in spite of overwhelming visual evidence. Great harm has been done but it can be stopped before it completely spirals out of control. “We are at a critical moment in this crisis and Mr. President must act before it is too late. This time demands leadership and mature leadership at such. “Most of the demands of the protesting youth, which Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State swiftly took to the President, are not unreasonable and can be met without anyone’s political interest or ambition being threatened. It is imperative that leaders at all levels, starting from Mr. President, must demonstrate meekness, humanity and sincerity in meeting the legitimate demands of the protesters and ensuring that justice is served where it must be served. These are the most potent ways of ending this crisis now. “The youth too must give peace a chance while making their legitimate demands. They must be mindful of miscreants who will infiltrate their ranks and give the protests a bad name only so that trigger – happy forces will kill them. The destruction and looting of public and private properties will hurt all of us and set us back. The targeting of individuals and groups for attacks and reprisal attacks will only further widen our divisions, escalate the crisis and threaten our fragile unity. “This is yet another moment when our nation is on the edge of cliff. Our individual and collective actions now and in the next few days will determine where we will go as a nation. May God help us in taking the right steps in the right direction.”