 Borno Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum on Thursday thanked Nigerians from the North and South who have shown empathy for the people of Borno in the midst of daunting challenges facing the state. Zulum, in a statement he personally signed in Maiduguri conveyed well wishes to President Muhammadu Buhari and all fellow citizens as Nigeria celebrates its 60th independence day. The statement reads: As our dear country marks 60th independence day, it is my honour to extend well wishes to our dear President, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, and to fellow Nigerians. “It is also an obligation for me to, on behalf of government and the good people of Borno State, extend our profound gratitude to millions of fellow Nigerians in the north and south who have ceaselessly demonstrated empathy for Borno State as we go through a phase of security challenges which we shall overcome by the grace of Almighty God. “I have received and also observed outpour of genuine concern and prayers for our collective safety in ongoing peace-building, recovery and resettlement efforts. Borno State deeply appreciates the love shown to us by countless Nigerians and from leaders at different levels. “With the level of support being received, our optimism for peace and recovery has continually increased. Our hope is as fresh as our trust and confidence in our gallant armed forces and volunteers who have shown great sacrifice and overriding commitment to our shared desire for a peaceful Borno, a peaceful northeast and a peaceful Nigeria. “We have the same trust and confidence in the leadership of our armed forces led by the Commander-in-Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari. Mr President has, without doubt, consistently given us listening ears with clear evidence of compassion for Borno and the genuine will to end Boko Haram crisis which is Nigeria’s most pressing problem. “I respectfully urge fellow Nigerians within and outside Borno to continually pray for peace and prosperity of our dear country and to renew our individual and communal obligations to be patriotic citizens of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”