 The candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Lagos East Senatorial by-election, Tokunbo Abiru, on Tuesday canvassed comprehensive reforms of the Nigeria Police as one of the strategies to end the brutality of youths by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Abiru, who is the immediate past group managing director/chief executive officer, Polaris Bank Limited, also rejected arbitrary arrest of youths carrying laptops or holding android phones, noting that, “it is a practice that must not have a place in our policing or criminal investigation system.” The candidate, while speaking at a meeting with stakeholders in Ijede Local Council Development Area (LCDA), promised to pursue comprehensive police reforms, condemning the attack on a young citizen in Ughelli, Delta State on October 3 and extra-judicial activities of some SARS operatives across the federation. At the meeting were also the Chairman of APC Senatorial Election Campaign Council, Kaoli Olusanya; husband of Ogun State Deputy Governor, Bode Oyedele; a federal lawmaker representing Ikorodu Federal Constituency II, Hon. Jimi Benson, and Majority Leader of Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, among others. Speaking at the meeting, the APC candidate expressed grave concern over the activities of SARS, an arm of the Nigeria Police, and cases of recent and previous instances of brutality and extra-judicial killings. Abiru observed that the most recent incident involved “a young Nigerian in Ughelli, Delta State on October 3. This incident reportedly typifies the extra-judicial activities of some SARS operatives across the federation.” While he described the decision of the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to ban all the tactical squads of the force, Abiru noted that the ban was “not sufficient to guarantee or restore confidence of our youths, and indeed the entire countrymen, in the police.” Among others, the tactical squads, which were banned on Monday, comprise SARS, Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Special Tactical Squad (STS), Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and Anti-Cultism Squad, among others. However, Abiru acknowledged that the ban of the tactical squads “is a required step that should be taken and I am happy that this first step has been taken.”