 The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has called on all the participating political parties in the upcoming governorship election in Ondo state to embrace the virtues of democracy by seeing elections as a call to service of the people and not ‘a do-or-die’ affair. Adamu made the call on Monday in Akure at a stakeholders meeting as part of preparation towards the smooth conduct of the election. The IGP, who also assured the commitment of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies to a free, fair, credible and successful election, however, warned violence mongers to immediately desist from their uncharitable deviant activities or be prepared to face the consequences. Adamu noted that the Nigeria Police Force has identified some flashpoints for violence in the state and are under watch, therefore advised the public to follow the guidelines for a peaceful election. According to him, a total of 33,783 police personnel which comprise of 30,933 conventional police personnel and 2,850 Special Police units would be deployed for the election, while the Police deployment will be complemented by an additional 3,500 manpower that will be drawn from other Security Agencies.
“These personnel shall be deployed to adequately secure the 3,009 Polling Units (PUs) in 203 Wards spread over the 18 Local Government Areas of the state. “They are to protect the personnel and assets of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the electorates, and residents of Ondo State in general before, during and after the elections.” Adamu also disclosed that the Military would be engaged for the purpose of securing the Inter-State borders while the Nigeria Police Air wing will provide air surveillance. “I hereby warn violence mongers to immediately desist from their uncharitable deviant activities or be prepared to face the consequences. “Even as I implore parents and guardians to counsel their children and wards to resist the unprofitable urge of being recruited by any politician for thuggery and other acts of violence,” he said. On his own part, the INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, assured that the commission would improve on the performance of the last governorship election in Edo State. Yakubu disclosed that the commission had identified about 16 areas of improvement, which include, logistics, prompt response to Smart Card Reader hitches on Election Day, the menace of vote-buying during elections and compliance with COVID-19 protocols among others. According to him, “For this reason, we identified 16 areas of improvement, including logistics, prompt response to Smart Card Reader glitches on Election Day, the menace of vote-buying during elections and compliance with COVID-19 protocols. “In response, we have engaged with land and maritime transport owners for forward and reverse logistics to and from land and riverine locations. “We have engaged an additional 104 Registration Area Technical Support (RATECHS) staff to respond rapidly to issues with Card Readers on Election Day.” According to him, “We had useful discussions with the security agencies and anti-corruption agencies on how to deal with vote-buying during elections. “I wish to assure all eligible voters that every vote will count and only the choice made by the people of Ondo State will determine the outcome of the election. “I want to assure political parties and candidates that we will remain focused on our processes and procedures.” The INEC chairman, however, solicited for the cooperation of the stakeholders and the people of the state to ensure a hitch-free election and assured the electorates and the public that sensitive materials would be deployed as scheduled.