 The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has in the last three months reconciled life threatening challenges for the party in 11 states across the country, Chairman of APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Mai-Mala Buni said. Buni who made this known at the inauguration of reconciliation and election committees for Bayelsa Central and West in Abuja on Tuesday said his team upon assumption of office engaged in genuine reconciliation to rebuild people’s confidence, trust and hope in the party. According to the Yobe State Governor, the reconciliation efforts of the caretaker committee have manifested in the return of political heavy weights including the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Former PDP National Chairman, Barnabas Gemade, several members of the National Assembly amongst others. “Your Excellency the chairman and distinguished members of the committee, your assignment falls within the mandate of providing genuine reconciliation to give every party member in Bayelsa state, a true sense of belonging. You should therefore be just, fair, transparent and objective in executing your assignment. We should always place party interests over and above personal interests and carry everyone on board for us to succeed. “Similarly, your committee is mandated to mobilize, strategize and deliver Bayelsa Central and West Senatorial districts to the party. Our success in this election is very crucial and strategic because of the need to have more supporting hands in the national assembly for improved collaboration and synergy with the President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR administration to successfully execute its policies and programmes to improve the lives of Nigerians”, he instructed. Addressing journalists shortly after the inauguration, Chairman of the Committee and Gombe State Governor, Mohammed Yahaya declared that the party will defeat with a wide margin the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Governor Seriake Dickson and other senatorial candidates challenging APC in the forthcoming Bayelsa senatorial elections. The Gombe State Governor insisted that former Governor Dickson, who is the senatorial candidate of PDP in Bayelsa is not a threat to the APC. Yahaya said: “I agree it is a very big task, but for me as a governor and as a loyal party member, I have the believe that nothing is impossible as far as election is concerned. As long as we are able to work together as a family and work towards the success of the party. For I think is a possibility and I have the conviction that we shall deliver APC in both the senatorial election coming up in Bayelsa state. “Dickson is no threat, if not for some technical issues, APC would have been in government in Bayelsa state, not even when he was sitting as the governor. “At this moment that we have galvanised our party, that we have reunited, that we have reconciled, we are just going to polished all the arrangement that our people have on ground down the ladder, so that we work together assiduously assured the success of the party. I guarantee you, we are going to bring those two senatorial seats”.