 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of being behind the series of constitutional violations, abuse of human rights and impunity bedeviling the nation in the last five years. The opposition party says it hinges its belief on the attempt of the ruling APC to justify President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of his aide and frontline APC member, Ms. Lauretta Onochie, as national commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The PDP said such provocative, arrogant and disdainful display of impunity, especially abuse of the police was responsible for the growing tension, remonstration and social restiveness currently threatening our national cohesion. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Sunday said the APC by its action was plotting to trigger crisis. The statement said, “Our party and indeed, Nigerians were shocked that the APC deployed an impostor, as spokesperson, to issue a statement to justify the brazen violation of paragraph 14 of the 3rd Schedule of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which forbids a person involved in partisan politics to hold office as a member of INEC. “After a critical analysis of the statement and other offensive comments by the APC in support of constitutional violations and abuse of rights, no one is left in doubt that the APC, as a party, is bent on triggering crisis and destroying the unity of our dear nation, seeing that it has no place in the future of Nigeria. “It is distressing that while our party, known for our strict adherence to rule of law and an overwhelming majority of Nigerians, including members of the National Assembly and state governors have rejected the offensive nomination and urged President Buhari to send a replacement to the Senate, the APC is rather seeking to set up Mr. President and further pitch him against already agitated Nigerians and the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “Our party finds it ludicrous that the APC in its wicked and anti-people enterprise, sought to divert attention from its atrocities by laying a false claim that some INEC members, including Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had links with the PDP. “Such poorly scripted piece of fiction cannot sway Nigerians as they know that Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, was never a member of the PDP and that no member of the PDP has been appointed a Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) while a card-carrying member of our party.” Ologbondiyan said the APC’s diversionary tactics would never diminish the determination of the PDP and other well-meaning Nigerians from using every means possible in a democracy to stop Onochie from being confirmed as INEC commissioner. “Moreover, we believe that some voice of reason has reached President Buhari, who would not want to worsen the already tensed situation in the country, not to dance to the evil tune being played by the APC. “Our party counsels a few credible Nigerians left in the APC to call the leadership of their party to order, particularly over its use of impostors, as spokespersons, to fan the embers of crisis and political tension in our country,” the statement added.